The Death Eaters , formerly known as the Knights of Walpurgis , were the main followers of Lord Voldemort . Many of the members were witches and wizards who strongly believed in the notion of pure-blood supremacy . However there were also those who joined out of fear or ambition, without necessarily sharing that view or even being pure-blooded themselves, or who were simply blackmailed into joining.

Lord Voldemort used this select group of wizards and witches during both the First and Second Wizarding Wars , employing them as his elite force of wizards trained in the Dark Arts . They often wore black hoods and masks with snake-like eye slits to cover their faces.

The Death Eaters were considered Lord Voldemort's main supporters and had the Dark Mark burned into their left forearms. When Voldemort touched a Dark Mark, each of the Death Eaters felt it, signalling for them to Apparate to their leader's side. Death Eaters could also summon Voldemort with their Marks.

Before the Death Eaters themselves came to be, Tom Riddle , as Voldemort was known in his childhood and early adulthood, gathered a gang of Slytherin students who considered themselves his friends, though in truth, he felt no real attachments to any of them due to his lack of desire for a true friend.

According to former Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore , they were a mixture of the weak seeking protection, the ambitious seeking glory, and the thuggish seeking a leader who could show them more refined cruelty, and were considered to be forerunners of the Death Eaters since most (if not all) indeed became the first Death Eaters. He manipulated them to do his bidding, and though this led to several nasty incidents over the years, with Riddle's strategic discretion, none was linked back to the group, much less the model student Riddle himself.

Before 1970 , Riddle formed a group he named the Death Eaters. Its original membership comprised people that Voldemort knew from his time at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry . Most of those recruited were from Slytherin House .

Members of the organisation Voldemort deemed to be valuable and faithful would be branded with the Dark Mark . This symbol, a skull with a snake protruding from the mouth, was used to summon his followers at will. The Mark was considered the greatest honour among the Death Eaters. Out of respect for their master, they referred to him as the "Dark Lord". Actively gathering an army of Dark witches, wizards and creatures, with the belief that his hidden Horcruxes granted him immortality, Voldemort and his followers planned to overthrow the Ministry of Magic . Their ranks were huge, outnumbering the Order of the Phoenix by approximately twenty to one.

Death Eater activity during the First Wizarding War consisted of stealth attacks, espionage, torture and mass killings of witches, wizards, and large numbers of Muggles . These were initiated by the Death Eaters, often, but not always, on the orders of Voldemort. Part of the Death Eaters' modus operandi was to cast the Dark Mark over every house where they committed murder. This inspired much terror in the wizarding community.

However, the Death Eaters remained opposed by the Order of the Phoenix , founded by Albus Dumbledore , and the Ministry, whose effort to bring Voldemort and his supporters to justice was spearheaded by the head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement .

After Lord Voldemort attempted to circumvent a prophecy written by Sybill Trelawney during the height of the war, he disappeared following his attack on Godric's Hollow that resulted in the murder of James and Lily Potter , with many people believing he had died. His primary target, the infant Harry Potter , was credited for Voldemort's fall and surviving with nothing but a scar, thus earning him the moniker of the "Boy Who Lived".

Being none the wiser to what had become of their master, the Death Eaters largely fell into chaos. Many were rounded up and imprisoned in Azkaban without trial as part of the hard line taken by the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement , Barty Crouch Snr , who had legalised the Auror 's use of the Unforgivable Curses against those suspected to be among the enemy's ranks. Sirius Black , whom Pettigrew framed for his crimes, was among those who were imprisoned without trial, although some accused of being Death Eaters, like Crouch's own son , were given a trial, albeit Crouch Snr did not give these suspects a chance to speak for their defence, instead simply casting them to Azkaban after reading out their alleged crimes.

Some Death Eaters managed to elude justice by claiming the Imperius Curse had been used on them, such as Lucius Malfoy , or by turning traitor to the other Death Eaters, as Igor Karkaroff did. Ministry efforts to determine who was and wasn't forced to serve as a Death Eater were largely unsuccessful, as many Death Eaters avoided being sent to Azkaban and reintegrated themselves into society, though people like Arthur Weasley were never quite convinced of their innocence.

Most followers hid their allegiance to Voldemort and therefore did not try to find him, although a handful of Death Eaters, such as the Lestranges and Barty Crouch Jnr, remained fiercely loyal to their fallen master and sought him out, believing they would be rewarded by Voldemort for their loyalty. Bellatrix, Rodolphus , and Rabastan Lestrange , as well as Barty Crouch Jnr, tortured the Longbottoms into insanity while trying to procure information about Voldemort's whereabouts: this attack was considered one of the most atrocious crimes in recent history. They were captured and sentenced to Azkaban , but Bellatrix proudly proclaimed that the Dark Lord would rise again. Some Death Eaters, such as Evan Rosier , chose to resist arrest and fought to the death.

Peter Pettigrew believed that if the rogue Death Eaters got wind of his survival, they would seek to kill him, for it was his information that led to Voldemort's downfall. It was for this reason that Pettigrew hid in his unregistered Animagus form as a pet rat, stationed near Harry in an attempt to bide his time to turn the boy in should the Death Eaters start to regain momentum, in which nobody would dare say he betrayed Lord Voldemort. However, Pettigrew was ousted by Sirius and Remus Lupin , thus forcing him to seek out the weakened Dark Lord for shelter, ultimately assisting him in his regeneration.

Thirteen years later, at the four hundred and twenty-second Quidditch World Cup in 1994 , a group of Death Eaters attacked the camp of wizards and witches and a nearby Muggle family. The Death Eaters seemed to consider torturing and humiliating Muggles a form of entertainment. When Crouch Jnr launched the Dark Mark into the air out of rage for his comrades not seeking out their fallen master, the Death Eaters fled in fear of Voldemort's retribution for their disloyalty.

On 24 June 1995 , Lord Voldemort finally returned to a physical body through a Dark potion created by Peter Pettigrew . Moments after Lord Voldemort had finally regained his body, he summoned his followers to him by touching Peter Pettigrew's Dark Mark . Some proved too afraid to return to him, such as defector Igor Karkaroff , while others who were dead or imprisoned remained absent. Severus Snape did not initially return as he was loyal to Dumbledore and the Order of the Phoenix after Voldemort's murder of Lily. He instead returned two hours later, after being told to maintain his cover by Dumbledore, claiming to Voldemort that he was trying to maintain the cover of a double agent, which the Dark Lord found satisfying.

Despite several absences, there were many who returned the call, including Walden Macnair , Lucius Malfoy , Nott , Crabbe , Goyle , and Avery . Avery went to beg for forgiveness, but Voldemort told the band of Death Eaters who did not try to find him that he wants thirteen years of repayment before he could forgive them for their wavered loyalty: Snape would later comment that had the faithless Death Eaters not been forgiven, then Voldemort would have very few followers left.

Harry Potter was present for Voldemort's return to power, and even duelled him, resulting in a spectacular display of Priori Incantatem , revealing that the cores of Voldemort's and Harry's wands were related. Harry managed to escape and tell Headmaster Albus Dumbledore of Voldemort's return, which allowed Dumbledore to revive the Order of the Phoenix and begin to counteract Voldemort's plans.

Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge and most of the Ministry of Magic originally refused to believe that Voldemort had returned. Though Harry Potter and Albus Dumbledore served as dissenting voices, the majority of the public chose to believe in the Ministry and its wider propaganda and smear campaign against Potter and Dumbledore, which would be printed in news outlets such as the Daily Prophet . Finally in 1996 , the Minister for Magic witnessed Voldemort and Dumbledore's duel in the Ministry of Magic and was forced to admit his mistake.

Armed with the advantage of the Ministry's denial, the Death Eaters kept a low profile in order to maintain their standing in the wizarding world and slowly but surely rebuild their forces without detection or hindrance. Due in part to the Ministry's refusal to remove the Dementors from Azkaban , a proposition Dumbledore supported immediately following Voldemort's return, the Death Eaters informally recruited the Dementors to their cause. Similar progress was made with the giants . The quiet revolt of the Dementors fostered a mass breakout of imprisoned Death Eaters from Azkaban in early 1996 .

In early summer of 1996 , Voldemort sent a group of twelve Death Eaters, led by Lucius Malfoy, into the Department of Mysteries in order to steal the prophecy concerning himself and Harry Potter. Having originally attacked Harry Potter based upon a partial recounting of it, Voldemort now desired to hear the full version in order to understand entirely the nature of the connection between himself and Potter. Harry was lured there, along with five other members of Dumbledore's Army , when Voldemort used their connection to give Harry a false vision of his godfather being tortured.

However, Harry and his friends managed to elude the Death Eaters, and the prophecy was accidentally destroyed when Neville Longbottom knocked it out of Harry's hands during the struggle. A battle between the Death Eaters and several members of the Order of the Phoenix resulted in eleven of the twelve Death Eaters being captured, and Sirius Black killed. Voldemort and Bellatrix Lestrange fled, but not before Fudge and several other Ministry officials witnessed the return of the Dark Lord, which led to Fudge's resignation and signalled the start of open warfare under the new Minister, Rufus Scrimgeour .

The raid was a failure for the Death Eaters because their reactivation was no longer a secret and the captured Death Eaters were then sent to Azkaban . Additionally, Voldemort failed in his objective to seize the prophecy concerning himself and Harry, infuriating him. Revealed at last to the wizarding community, the Death Eaters proceeded to resume their earlier lifestyle and behaviour. Kidnapping, torturing, and murdering of wizards, witches and Muggles began anew as the Second War began. This included the capture of wandmaker Garrick Ollivander, the murder of Order Of The Phoenix member Emmeline Vance , and the murder of Amelia Bones , who was until that point the head of the Department For Magical Law Enforcement at the Ministry of Magic.

Due to the Ministry's failure to accept the reality of Voldemort's return early on, the Death Eaters' forces had already grown to the point where the Ministry had a very difficult time keeping them in check, made only worse when the Minister for Magic still cared more about the bureaucracy's reputation than actual security.

During the Second Wizarding War , Voldemort plotted to kill Albus Dumbledore and instructed Draco Malfoy to perform the act, though Snape commented that Voldemort didn't really believe Draco would be able to and instead believed Voldemort intended himself to ultimately deal the killing blow. Draco performed several assassination attempts during the school year, meanwhile repairing a Vanishing Cabinet which would allow Death Eaters to bypass Hogwarts's defences. At the close of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry year in June 1997 , Dumbledore and Harry left Hogwarts to obtain a locket that they believed to be one of the Horcruxes of Voldemort from a cave filled with Inferi . Draco took this opportunity to bring several Death Eaters into Hogwarts, where they began to duel with several members from the Order of the Phoenix and Dumbledore's Army . Dumbledore and Harry Apparated back into Hogsmeade and through the assistance of Madam Rosmerta , they saw a Dark Mark hanging in the sky above Hogwarts Castle. They borrowed broomsticks and flew to Hogwarts's highest tower in the castle, the Astronomy Tower.

Dumbledore encountered Draco Malfoy and performed the Full Body-Bind Curse on Harry, who was hidden under the Cloak of Invisibility , before Draco disarmed him. Draco revealed how he successfully used a Vanishing Cabinet to help the Death Eaters enter Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Dumbledore then informed Draco that he already knew about the assassination plots, but had not taken action against Draco due to Dumbledore's fears that Voldemort would retaliate against Draco's family. He also tried to persuade Draco to not kill him, saying that such an act would taint his soul forever, and also tried to get him to defect from Voldemort's side, giving his assurance that his Order of the Phoenix members would be able to protect his family. This talk delayed Draco in his plans to murder him until several Death Eaters, including Alecto and Amycus Carrow , Fenrir Greyback, and Corban Yaxley , arrived at the scene.

Severus Snape successfully cast the Killing Curse on Dumbledore in front of the four Death Eaters, Fenrir Greyback , Draco, and Harry, who was still hidden under his Invisibility Cloak and frozen in place by Dumbledore's spell. After the latter's death, the jubilant Death Eaters retreated on Snape's orders. Harry, free from Dumbledore's Full Body-Bind Curse, quickly chased after the Death Eaters and cast several unsuccessful spells at Snape when they reached the grounds. One Death Eater, Thorfinn Rowle , set fire to Rubeus Hagrid 's hut , and the Death Eaters disapparated when they reached the gate.

Also present were Rowle and Gibbon , who was accidentally killed by a stray Killing Curse from the former, the only casualty on the Death Eater's side. In addition to Dumbledore's death, Bill Weasley was attacked by Fenrir Greyback and received scars on his face but lived without becoming a werewolf because Greyback was not fully transformed at the time of the attack. However, Bill still retained some lycanthropic symptoms, including a taste for raw meat.

Despite Dumbledore's death, Voldemort was still opposed by the Order of the Phoenix and Dumbledore's Army , who knew it was not safe to trust the Ministry of Magic. Voldemort knew through Snape that Harry Potter would be moved from the house of his aunt and uncle a few days before his seventeenth birthday, which is when Lilly's Potter's charm protecting him would have broken if Harry had continued to call the place home until that point. The exact details of this move were largely unknown to the Death Eaters, Snape having told them just enough to have been able to convince them to act. Snape also manipulated Mundungus Fletcher with magic, to give ideas as to the defence of Harry that the Order would trust, but which would confuse the Death Eaters.

As a congregation of members of the Order of the Phoenix and Dumbledore's Army, including Alastor Moody , Arthur Weasley , Kingsley Shacklebolt , Nymphadora Tonks , Remus Lupin , Rubeus Hagrid , Bill Weasley , Fleur Delacour , Fred and George Weasley , Mundungus Fletcher , Ron Weasley , and Hermione Granger , along with Harry Potter himself, left the home of the Dursleys, the Death Eaters attacked immediately. They could not tell right away which pair included the real Harry Potter because six of the congregation had used Polyjuice Potion .

It was assumed that Harry would be with the strongest members, so Shacklebolt and Moody were attacked most fervently at first. This led to Voldemort, who was able to fly , personally killing the latter. During the ensuing battle, numerous Death Eaters were injured, including Rodolphus Lestrange , and one was possibly killed. However, they managed to kill Moody and Hedwig , as well as injure George Weasley .

When Harry Potter used Expelliarmus , which they had come to consider his trademark spell, against Stan Shunpike , who Harry believed was under the Imperius Curse , the Death Eaters knew the real Harry to be with Hagrid. Despite their attempts to capture him, they were thwarted by Harry and Hagrid's efforts, and finally when Harry crossed into a protective spell over the home of Ted Tonks . Lucius's wand was disintegrated by a spell cast by Harry's wand, infuriating and confusing Voldemort, who began to search for a more powerful wand .

In spite of their failure to kill Harry, the Death Eaters' plans of overthrowing the Ministry of Magic progressed, and on 1 August 1997 , they stormed into the complex, killing Rufus Scrimgeour. Pius Thicknesse was installed in his place, controlled by the Imperius Curse placed on him by Corban Yaxley . Now under the new regime, the Ministry granted amnesty to the Death Eaters, making them completely free to carry out their operations of domination. Voldemort now effectively controlled the entire Ministry of Magic, though never made the fact he controlled it public. Instead, the Death Eaters performed the day to-day tasks of running the Ministry, leaving Voldemort free to pursue his quest of a more powerful wand.

The Death Eaters used the Ministry's resources to eliminate the Order of the Phoenix 's defences, attacking The Burrow and other homes of Order members, as well as those of some of their allies, such as Ted and Andromeda Tonks . While no one was killed, many were hurt under questioning about the whereabouts of Harry Potter, and all were subsequently put under surveillance.

With the Ministry's resources in the hands of the Death Eaters, Lord Voldemort stationed Nagini at Godric's Hollow and left the Death Eaters to run the Ministry in his name until he could find the fabled Elder Wand . Meanwhile, the Death Eater-controlled Ministry continued to advance their goals of pure-blood supremacism in his absence. They created the Muggle-Born Registration Commission , headed by Yaxley and Dolores Umbridge , which was an instrument for the humiliation and persecution of Muggle-borns who as a group were falsely accused of having "stolen" magic and consequently imprisoned in Azkaban . propaganda against Muggle-borns and Harry Potter was spread: Harry was considered " Undesirable Number One," and there was a 10,000 Galleon reward for information leading to his capture. A Taboo was also placed upon Voldemort's name as a method of locating Order members, since they were the only ones remaining who were brave enough to say it.

Attendance at Hogwarts became mandatory during the 1997-1998 school year since Voldemort wanted all members of the magical population under his control. This was another way to weed out Muggle-borns , as students were required to prove blood status, and any Muggle-born children were sent to the Muggle-Born Registration Commission and then to Azkaban .

Severus Snape was appointed Headmaster, though he faced fierce but quiet opposition from Minerva McGonagall and other professors, as well as the remaining members of Dumbledore's Army , including Neville Longbottom , Luna Lovegood , and Ginny Weasley . They encouraged rebellion, saved students from detentions that now involved corporal punishment , including extreme methods like having older students practise the Cruciatus Curse on younger students in detention. Many students eventually stopped attending classes and took up residence in the Room of Requirement .

The Carrow siblings were placed under Snape at the school, with Amycus Carrow teaching the Dark Arts , the class which replaced Defence Against the Dark Arts , and his sister, Alecto , took over the now mandatory Muggle Studies , teaching both wizarding and pure-blood supremacy . Additionally, the Carrows were in charge of discipline, and used brutal punishments against anyone who even slightly offended them. Despite most students despising the Carrows, some students, such as Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle , were at home performing Dark magic and torturing other students, with the Carrows seeming to favour their own house of Slytherin over others.

During Harry Potter's time hidden from the Death Eaters, he accidentally said Voldemort's name and thus triggered the Taboo placed upon the name. He, Ron and Hermione were captured by a group of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback and brought to Malfoy Manor , where they were confronted by Bellatrix Lestrange and the Malfoys . Bellatrix spotted Godric Gryffindor's Sword among the trio's possessions and interrogated Hermione using the Cruciatus Curse to find out where they got the item, but Hermione lied, claiming it was only a copy.

In the meantime, Dobby the house-elf came and rescued Harry, Ron, Garrick Ollivander , Luna Lovegood , and Dean Thomas from the basement, along with Griphook , who had reluctantly supported Hermione's lie. Together, they took various wands from the house's occupants before fleeing, but Dobby was killed by Bellatrix, who had also summoned Voldemort to the Manor. Upon his arrival, Voldemort was enraged that his Death Eaters had failed him by not managing to capture Harry and had drawn him away from his mission. He cruelly caused physical harm to all present and placed them under house arrest. Having learnt from Gellert Grindelwald who the previous owner of the Elder Wand was, he proceeded to raid Dumbledore's resting place and steal the wand.

Unbeknownst to almost everybody, Harry, along with Ron and Hermione, was out seeking to destroy Voldemort's Horcruxes and finish what Regulus Black had started in the 1970s and Albus Dumbledore had continued when he destroyed Marvolo Gaunt 's ring in 1996 . One Horcrux, Tom Riddle 's diary , had already been destroyed by Harry four years prior. Whilst on the run from Voldemort and his Death Eaters, the trio had managed to locate and destroy Slytherin's Locket . From Bellatrix's behaviour at Malfoy Manor, Harry Potter concluded that a Horcrux was in her vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank . With the help of Griphook, Harry, Ron, and Hermione broke into the bank and stole Helga Hufflepuff's Cup , escaping on a dragon .

Although the three companions were successful in stealing the cup, Voldemort learnt of Harry's mission from the bank's protectors. In a rage, he wiped them out and went to the places the Horcruxes were previously hidden, leaving Hogwarts for last, but in the process inadvertently revealing to Harry Potter that Hogwarts was indeed the last place to go.

Voldemort, along with his Death Eaters and other allies, attacked Hogwarts and those defending it in May 1998 . During this battle, Harry, Hermione, and Ron managed to find Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem in the Room of Requirement . It was accidentally destroyed by Vincent Crabbe when a Fiendfyre curse he cast got out of control. Meanwhile, the Death Eaters and their allies stormed the castle. Voldemort had come to learn that he wasn't the true master of the Elder Wand, and he incorrectly believed that it was Severus Snape who was the true master since he had killed Dumbledore. As a result, Voldemort had Nagini kill Snape, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Wand, and then issued an ultimatum to the defenders of Hogwarts, saying that unless Harry was delivered to him then he would join the fighting himself.

Harry had learnt that he himself was one of Voldemort's Horcruxes and decided to secretly give himself up to Voldemort. He willingly took a Killing Curse from Voldemort in order to destroy it, but because his mother's sacrifice lived on in his blood, the blood Voldemort took in himself in order to regain a body, Harry was not killed. He found himself in limbo, the plane between life and death and was given the choice to either return to the living world or move on to the afterlife .

Goaded by Harry's apparent demise, an entire army of reinforcements stormed the castle, at which point Neville Longbottom beheaded Nagini with the Sword of Gryffindor, thereby ensuring that the final Horcrux was destroyed. Thanks to Harry's sacrifice that lived on in the blood of his allies, the Death Eaters' curses weren't able to affect the defenders of Hogwarts and the Death Eaters were easily defeated.

With the Death Eater forces defeated and the battle all but lost, Harry Potter destroyed Lord Voldemort once and for all in a duel, thanks to his mastery over the Elder Wand . Without their master, the surviving Death Eaters fell or were scattered. However a select few, such as the Malfoys, were pardoned. After not participating in the final battle, Lucius gave information on his former comrades and assisted the Auror Office in their capture, and many Death Eaters were permanently imprisoned. After Voldemort's death, the Dark Marks on the Death Eaters' forearms faded into scars.

Following the outbreak of the Calamity on 14 December 2018 , whereupon a powerful piece of Chaotic Magic was unleashed upon the world and resulted in one of the most massive breaches of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy in the history of the wizarding world, several magical communities around the world saw a sudden resurgence of Dark wizards adorning the black robes and masks of the original followers of the Dark Lord . Capitalising on the troubles of the day, these individuals would be sighted both in Great Britain as well as overseas, presumably trying to expose the wizardkind and provoke war between the magical and non-magical worlds as a pretext to re-establishing their prior reign of terror.

The Death Eaters, many of whom belonged or claimed to belong to ancient Pure-blood wizarding families, subscribed to the ideas that wizards were better than Muggles, and pure-bloods were better than Muggle-borns . As shown when Scorpius Malfoy time travelled to an alternate reality where the Death Eaters won, Voldemort's ultimate goal was the subjugation of the Muggle world by wizards.

Furthermore, the Death Eaters planned to restrict the use of magic to those who were pure-bloods or half-bloods only, putting into practice a system which was very similar to systems employed by families such as the Black family , who routinely destroyed records of Squibs and blood traitors in order to keep up the idea that their families were 'pure', and didn't even acknowledge the existence of Muggle blood in their families. Despite this, as Hermione Granger pointed out, most Death Eaters were likely half-bloods who were pretending to be pure-blood in order to act as a Death Eater.

Aside from their views of Muggles and Muggle-borns, the Death Eaters also openly practised the Dark Arts as a way to gain power, and routinely engaged in violent acts which broke wizarding law in order to get their way.

The Death Eaters were organised around Lord Voldemort , who offered them power and protection, as well as fed their views on wizarding and pure-blood supremacy . However, Voldemort himself was more interested in the pursuit of power and he merely preyed on others' prejudice to obtain followers. Though he allowed them to establish purification policies when they took over the Ministry of Magic , he busied himself with seeking power for himself while never bothering to help them with these goals.

Death Eaters followed their leader's commands first and foremost, and he treated them ruthlessly, often sending them on missions and punishing them horribly if they failed him, even if they failed due to bad luck rather than incompetence. At his command, they worked against Voldemort's opponents, the Order of the Phoenix , through espionage, murder, and open warfare, and also infiltrated and undermined the Ministry of Magic. When he needed tasks done to increase his own power, he often sent them if he considered the task trivial enough to not warrant his personal attention, such as retrieving the prophecy from the Department of Mysteries or organising alliances with the werewolves and giants .

Although some Death Eaters appeared to have been fanatically loyal to Voldemort, such as Bellatrix Lestrange and Barty Crouch Jnr , several only aligned with him for the ideals of purification and shared glory, such as Lucius Malfoy and Regulus Black , while many others seemed to serve him largely out of fear, such as Peter Pettigrew . As soon as he was defeated in 1981 , many immediately renounced their loyalty and did not attempt to find Voldemort in the intervening years. Also, due to maltreatment from Voldemort, some who joined him would come to regret it later on, such as Lucius, Draco, and Regulus, when they either suffered his abuse or witnessed the true extent of his cruelty. Those who rioted at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup fled when the Dark Mark was cast, and Bill Weasley speculated then that those Death Eaters were “even more frightened than the rest of us to see him come back”. However, most Apparated to his side if they were able to when Voldemort called them upon his return , claiming that they had been loyal all along.

Although most of Voldemort's recruits were from Slytherin , the Dark wizard-inclined house which he himself was sorted into, he sometimes gained Death Eaters from other locations such as Peter Pettigrew of Gryffindor and Igor Karkaroff from Durmstrang Institute . Valuing their loyalty over their social statuses or ages, Voldemort recruited Regulus Black and Draco Malfoy , both of whom were sixteen years old at the time of induction. This was beneficial to him because it, at least in Malfoy's case, it placed him in an advantageous position and meant that his enemies underestimated or were merciful to him.

In turn, even though Voldemort valued the services they provided, and spoke as though they were a family, he saw them as no more than dispensable servants. Voldemort was willing to sacrifice even the most loyal of them if it would increase his power, the most prominent example being Severus Snape , who he thought to the end was faithful. Some Death Eaters deluded themselves to thinking that they alone knew and understood Voldemort, or were even close to him, but Voldemort never desired friendship. Voldemort had some things in common with several Death Eaters (such as a disappointing father like Barty Crouch Jnr , or trying to cover his Muggle heritage like Severus Snape), and even sharing such facts to garner the loyalty of such people, making it seem as he understood them in return, taking advantage of their inner feelings without gaining any attachments to them in return. Coupled with either disloyalty or constant failures, Voldemort lost faith in some of the once-highly revered servants such as Lucius and Bellatrix. As a sign of distrust-based precaution, the Death Eaters did not have knowledge of all their colleagues' identities: Voldemort alone knew who they all were. This was done in order to prevent any traitors from turning all the others in, though some Death Eaters knew the identities of others, regardless.

Becoming a Death Eater meant a lifetime of service to Lord Voldemort. Death Eaters were denied the right to resign under any circumstances, under penalty of death. Sirius Black thought his younger brother was killed for attempting to quit after trying to refuse going on an assignment, though he was wrong about the cause of his brother's death. Igor Karkaroff deserted the Death Eaters after turning many of them over to the Ministry, and even though he went into hiding after his former master was revived, he was eventually caught and killed for his disloyalty. However, Voldemort did forgive the servants who did not attempt to find him but returned when he touched Wormtail's Dark Mark. Snape claimed that, if otherwise, Voldemort would be left with very few followers. Because of his diminished military forces at the time of his rebirth ceremony, Voldemort only punished those who returned to him by mild torture and demands: he let Wormtail suffer the pain of severing his hand as punishment for years of disloyalty, and demanded that the Death Eaters present suffer thirteen years of pain as repayment for thirteen years of disloyalty before truly being forgiven, and said that those who had gone to Azkaban for him had proved their loyalty.

The Death Eaters seemed to have an informal hierarchy, with Voldemort at the top, followed by top ranking members, who were often his most powerful and trusted Death Eaters. Voldemort's most senior Death Eaters, most of whom were old friends from Slytherin house or younger Slytherin alumni, mostly pure-bloods, and people highly useful to Voldemort for their wealth, skill, or ruthlessness, were bestowed with the Dark Mark on the inside of their lower left arm. These were his inner circle, who he summoned to his side upon his rebirth in Harry's fourth year, and who sat around his high table at Malfoy Manor. Being branded with the Dark Mark was a symbol of the highest status and honour in Voldemort's social order, but was also something of a dangerous burden, as it allowed the Dark Lord to track, communicate with, and summon his chosen few. Some associates, such as relatives of Death Eaters, are also on par with the actual members, prominently Narcissa Malfoy .

Certain members could be branded with the Dark Mark without becoming fully fledged Death Eaters, such as Peter Pettigrew who was branded with a Dark Mark as well, though he was considered to be lesser than any other Death Eater, as Voldemort disdained his disloyalty and only saw him occasionally useful, thus assigning him to menial tasks most of the time. Age played little influence on one's induction into the group, as both Draco Malfoy and Regulus Black became Death Eaters at age 16, their devotion and usefulness being more important than their social qualifications; this was directly opposite to the opposing Order of the Phoenix, which only permitted those of age 17 or above (and have finished school) to join. It was for this reason that Hermione Granger was originally sceptical about Voldemort allowing a 16 year old Draco joining.

Additionally, certain people were allowed to wear Death Eater garments in order to command the respect they engendered, but were not Marked. These seem to included those that Voldemort found useful but did not prefer to associate with. Genuine Death Eaters also regard these individuals with disrespect, as they did not hesitate to speak down to them or outright attack them. The most notable example was the werewolf Fenrir Greyback , notorious for his savagery and cannibalism, who Voldemort would use as a tool to coerce other people into helping him.

The Death Eaters were also supported by a mass of disorganised rabble, like the Snatchers , who were loyal to Voldemort but not useful enough to him to deal with directly. They were given orders and opportunities to commit crimes or advance themselves through the senior Death Eaters. Witches and wizards under the Imperius Curse like Pius Thicknesse , the weak-willed and/or the slow-witted, like Stan Shunpike , and non-humans of different degrees of sentience such as Werewolves , Giants , Dementors and the Inferi were treated with similar amounts of respect. These groups were pressed into service by the Death Eaters, and sentient groups that would have ordinarily remained neutral like the Dementors, Giants, and Werewolves were brought into the fold with false promises that their grievances would be avenged upon victory in battle. This entire mass was mobilised for Voldemort's attack on Hogwarts, though before then they were only used to maintain the new regime, or else roam uncontrolled, sowing chaos and demoralisation as they sought individual gain. During Voldemort's assault on Hogwarts, they were used as expendable cannon fodder meant to overwhelm the students and teachers through shear force of numbers or test Hogwarts's formidable magic defences.