Dragons were giant winged, fire -breathing reptilian beasts . Widely regarded as terrifying yet awe-inspiring, they could be found all over the world and were frequently referred to in Asian and medieval European folklore. Able to fly and breathe fire through their nostrils and mouths, they were one of the most dangerous and hardest to conceal creatures in the wizarding world .

One of their body parts, the heartstring , could be used as the core of a wand and was designated by Garrick Ollivander as one of the " Supreme Cores ", which was a distinction shared by only two other beasts . Wandmakers in the past have also tried to make wand cores out of other parts of dragons but these wands were generally less powerful and so the practice was abandoned.

The British Ministry of Magic classified them as XXXXX , known wizard killers that were impossible to train or domesticate. Despite how dangerous they were, there were people who were trained to work with them, called dragon keepers, or dragonologists . A wizard or witch who traded and sold dragon eggs (which was an illegal activity) was referred to as a dragon dealer . It was also a possible, yet rare, corporeal form of the Patronus Charm .

Dragon mothers breathed fire on their eggs to keep them warm. They did not keep their eggs in nests. Newly born dragons were referred to as chicks. The dragon's first fire breaths, usually accompanied by thick grey smoke, appeared when the dragon was around six months old. However, they were known to produce involuntary sparks when they were newly hatched.

However, the ability to fly was normally developed later, at around twelve months, and the dragon would not be fully mature until it was two years old, having developed both of these abilities, and ready to live on its own. Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit stated that you were to feed a baby dragon a bucket of brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. This apparently served as a replacement for dragon milk .

A human caring for a dragon egg needed to maintain the right temperature in place of its mother's breath. Fresh air influenced the length of its head and tail, while the mood that the area provides influenced the size of its body. Playing music was particularly helpful. If any of these three things were not adequately achieved, the egg did not hatch.

Not much is known about dragon behaviour, however it seemed that, at least with the Chinese Fireball breed of dragons, females were generally larger and dominant over males, while female Norwegian Ridgebacks were generally more ferocious than the males. Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them stated that sometimes females ousted males from their territories, at least with the Antipodean Opaleye .

It also stated that Fireballs were unusual in that they were willing to share territory with one another, although when it came to other species of dragon, no more than three dragons would share the same territory. This indicated that dragons were highly territorial.

Dragons were generally highly aggressive towards anything, even wizards, and would sometimes attack humans without provocation, such as in the case of the Ilfracombe Incident . However, there were some dragons that actually seemed perfectly friendly towards humans.

The Great Fire of London in 1666 was probably started by a young Welsh Green Dragon kept in the basement of the house in Puddling Lane.

Dragon breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks' Convention of 1709 .

In 1799 , a Ukrainian Ironbelly dragon carried off a Muggle sailing ship . Fortunately, there was no one aboard the ship at the time.

In 1802 , according to an unsubstantiated report, off the coast of Norway , a Norwegian Ridgeback dragon (supposedly) carried off a whale calf.

In 1890 , a Hebridean Black dragon attacked a flying carriage carrying George Osric , Eleazar Fig , and a new Hogwarts student . It ripped through the carriage, killing George, although Eleazar and the student were able to escape.

At some point during or before the 1890s , a group of poachers organised an illegal dragon fight club . Hufflepuff student Poppy Sweeting , along with another student, freed the captive dragons. They also reclaimed an egg that belonged to a Hebridean Black that they freed. They tracked down the dragon and returned the egg to her.

Newt Scamander worked for a time in the Dragon Research and Restraint Bureau at the British Ministry of Magic . He also spent World War I working with Ukrainian Ironbelly dragons on the Eastern Front.

A rogue Welsh Green dragon descended on a beach full of Muggle holidaymakers in 1932 . Tilly Toke and her family happened to be there, and her family cast the largest mass of Memory Charms of the century on all the Muggles of Ilfracombe. She was later awarded the Order of Merlin , First Class for her quick action to avoid breaking the International Statute of Secrecy . The Muggles later remember nothing of the incident, with the exception of an old fellow known as Dodgy Dirk , who continued to claim that a " dirty great flying lizard " attacked him on the beach. However, Muggles did not believe him and considered him to be crazy.

In the 1970s , a rogue Antipodean Opaleye dragon killed several kangaroos in Australia . It was a male, believed to have come to Australia in search of a place to live after being ousted from its territory in New Zealand by a female .

In 1992 , Harry Potter , Ron Weasley , and Hermione Granger arrived just in time to see a baby Norwegian Ridgeback emerge from its egg, which had been under the care of Rubeus Hagrid . The baby dragon sneezed some sparks and almost bit Hagrid (who was delighted). The first signs of hatching must have begun by breakfast time, since it was then that Harry, Ron, and Hermione received a note from Hagrid informing them of it. They went to his hut right after their morning Herbology class .

Draco Malfoy 's first name came from the constellation The Dragon ("Draco" in Latin). The motto of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry was Draco dormiens numquam titillandus ; Latin for Never tickle a sleeping dragon .

The Hogwarts gamekeeper, Rubeus Hagrid , loved and adored dragons, briefly owning a Norwegian Ridgeback named Norbert , who turned out to be a female and was subsequently renamed Norberta. In 1993 , the Minister for Magic , Cornelius Fudge , suggested placing dragons to guard the school from Sirius Black after being compelled to remove the Dementors , something that Albus Dumbledore thought Hagrid would be very happy with.

Many useful materials came from dragons, but they were hard to obtain (see Uses below). It took almost half a dozen wizards just to stun a dragon. Muggles believed that dragons were a mere myth, but they had been known on occasion to glimpse these beasts, and thus the dragon became a huge staple of European and Asian legends. To prevent them from being seen by Muggles, and to protect them from poaching, dragons were kept in dragon reserves around the world, most of which were far from human habitation. Dragons couldn't be domesticated, despite individuals trying to do so.

However, it was possible to condition them via torture to make them somewhat subservient, as Gringotts Wizarding Bank had done to the one guarding the lower vaults , who had been trained to expect pain upon hearing a certain noise. The selling of dragon products was closely regulated by the British Ministry of Magic, and only dragon species that were over-breeding were killed to make these items. Those who studied dragons were known as dragonologists .

A dragon was mentioned in a song heard by Newt Scamander and his friends at the speakeasy known as the Blind Pig in 1926 New York . Also, the curse Fiendfyre produced flames in the shape of dragons, and Gringotts Bank employed dragon feeders. The position included fireproof robes and paid 7 Galleons per week.

Dragons were used in the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament of 1994 , in which the champions had to retrieve a golden egg from a nesting mother. The varieties used were the Hungarian Horntail , the Chinese Fireball , the Swedish Short-Snout , and a Common Welsh Green . Ron Weasley 's brother Charlie worked with dragons in Romania at the time, and helped transport the dragons used in the Tournament.

Dragons were also used to guard certain vaults at Gringotts Wizarding Bank , and one was used by Harry Potter , Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger to escape the bank following their break-in in 1998 .

Though they couldn't be domesticated, there was one known instance of a dragon being used as a mount. In May 1998 , Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger rode on the back of a dragon, though they had trouble maintaining a grip on their steed and could not control its flight. During the 1993–1994 school year , before playing in the Quidditch final against Slytherin , Harry dreamed that the Slytherin team were flying on dragons instead of broomsticks . When he awoke, he realised that, in reality, they would not be allowed to ride dragons.

The dragon model, like the model in the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament of 1994, was used in a roast chestnuts sale near Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes in Diagon Alley to hold the chestnut in place.

Dragon milk could be used to create dragon milk cheese , as noted in the revised edition of Charm Your Own Cheese .

Madam Rosmerta owned a silk dressing gown embroidered with dragons, which she was wearing on the night in June 1997 when Harry Potter and Albus Dumbledore Apparated back from the Crystal Cave .

There was also a disease called Dragon Pox in the wizarding world , which was originally contracted by wizards working with dragons.

In rare cases, a corporeal Patronus might take the form of a dragon.

While dragon skin could resist most spells, such as a single Stunning Spell , a dozen wizards casting one at once at a dragon could stun it, and certain strategies might be employed to circumvent the strength of their hides.

While dragons resisted most spells due to their hides, their eyes were their weakest point, and, as such, the Conjunctivitis Curse , which caused irritation in the eyes, remained effective on them. In the Triwizard Tournament of 1994 , Durmstrang champion Viktor Krum used this curse on a dragon , with satisfying results.

In the Triwizard Tournament of 1994, the idea that multiple wizards using the same spell on a dragon could indeed stun it was proven, as Charlie Weasley and several other dragonologists used multiple Stunning Spells to successfully subdue several dragons.

Fleur Delacour somehow succeeded in putting a Common Welsh Green dragon into a trance or bewitched sleep during the Triwizard Tournament.

There was no officially sanctioned breeding of dragons , as dragon breeding was outlawed by the Warlocks' Convention of 1709 . However, they had been known to interbreed, producing rare hybrids. Below is a list of the ten known pure-bred breeds of dragons according to the fifty-second edition of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them :

The existence of these two dragons were only shown on a page of notes concerning the book Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit .