The Wand-Lighting Charm ( Lumos ) was a charm that illuminated the tip of the caster's wand , allowing the caster to see in the dark. The counter-charm for the spell was the Wand-Extinguishing Charm ( Nox ), which was used to extinguish the light from the caster's wand. The charm could be used to reveal magically hidden things.

Despite its apparent simplicity, the Wand-Lighting Charm was not invented until the 18th century . It was first used publicly by its inventor, Levina Monkstanley in the Ministry of Magic in 1772 — to the astonishment of her colleagues — to help her look for a fallen quill in a dusty corner.

However, Garvin Lügner (a German wizard ) claimed to have been the one who invented the spell, while he was developing his Instant Darkness Powder . It later transpired that Lügner had been lying about the invention of the charm and that his Instant Darkness Powder did not do too much more than slightly dim the lights.

This spell was taught in first-year Defence Against the Dark Arts and Charms classes at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was detailed in The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection , another unidentified spellbook and the Book of Spells . This spell was also used frequently as Hogwarts student skulk about the castle or the Forbidden Forest , often during the night-time or in dark places.

One of the simplest yet most useful light-creation spells , the Wand-Lighting Charm's principal usage was to create a light at the tip of the wand in order to see in the dark. This light was fairly warm, and risked igniting flammable things, including the caster's wand if they were careless enough.

Wand light was also able to repel ghosts and other spectral foes such as Gytrashes , from which they would flee. In addition, the Wand-Lighting Charm was able to illuminate and reveal magically hidden architecture such as doorways.

While the caster, by definition, had to own a wand in order to perform the charm, they did not actually have to be holding it in order to illuminate it. Indeed, if the caster performed the charm without holding their wand , their wand would light up even if it was some distance away.

When the charm was used in The Cave , the illuminated area was less-than-expected, as the darkness within seemed to be denser than normal.

There were three known variations of this charm: Lumos Solem , Lumos Duo and Lumos Maxima .

The incantation Lumos is derived from the Latin word lumen , meaning "light".