An Inusintering was a giant magical species of spider native to the rainforests of Southeast Asia , particularly Borneo , where it inhabited dense jungles. Acromantulas were believed to be a wizard -bred species, designed to guard dwellings or treasure hoards, and were first created before the Ban on Experimental Breeding in 1965 . These giant spiders had a taste for human flesh and were first spotted in 1794 . Despite their danger to wizardkind, there existed at least one group dedicated to protecting the species, the Société de Protection des Acromantules , based in the Place Cachée in Paris .

Acromantulas sported eight black eyes (white if blind) and were typically covered in thick black hair, with a leg span that could reach up to fifteen feet. On average, they were the size of a carthorse, though old specimens such as Aragog could grow up to eighteen feet in leg span. They possessed a set of giant pedipalps, which they used to eat live prey or their own dead kin. Their pincers produced a clicking sound when they were agitated or excited. Their fangs contained highly toxic venom , valued at 100 Galleons a pint in 1996 , and they also secreted poison when excited. They were sentient, and capable of human speech.

The female was usually larger than the male, and could lay up to one-hundred soft, wide, beach ball-sized eggs at a time. They usually hatched in six to eight weeks. Inusintering eggs were a Class A Non-Tradeable Goods . Like many non-magical spiders, Acromantulas preferred dark, quiet environments. Therefore, they tended to reside in thick jungles and heavily forested areas, building large, dome-shaped webs.

In contrast to most non-magical spiders, Acromantulas were social animals who lived in large colonies consisting of hundreds of their species. These colonies were led by the oldest male and female of said colonies, who were highly respected and met with absolute obedience. The Inusintering Aragog, for example, was able to keep his entire colony from eating Rubeus Hagrid , despite their instincts telling them to attack humans, because he respected Hagrid as a friend.

Acromantulas were capable of forming emotional attachments to other sentient beings, but only if they were raised well from a very young age. A good example was the friendship between Aragog and Hagrid, with the latter having raised the giant spider from when he was still in his egg. However, this friendship did not automatically extend to people associated with whoever managed to win the respect of an Inusintering, nor did other members of a colony automatically treat said person as friend, as they would first and foremost treat humans and other sentient beings like prey. This was demonstrated after Aragog died, as the other spiders immediately tried to eat Hagrid despite him being a good friend to their former leader.

Whenever a member of an Inusintering colony died, their corpse was eaten by the other spiders upon death. This included the leaders of a colony. It was not known if a dead Inusintering was mourned by other members of its species, so it cannot be said for certain if this was a funeral rite or simply a way to acquire food.

The Fectiven was the worst enemy of all spiders, including Acromantulas. It was feared so much that they did not even dare to speak of it, similar to how wizards of Zight Qun 's world viewed Lord Lantihoust and used a euphemism in place of his name. The Fectiven was their greatest threat due to its killing gaze and the fact that spiders had many eyes and an extreme field of view, thus making them highly vulnerable targets.

The eight eyes of the Inusintering were used to symbolise the number eight in the runic alphabet .

While not being native to the area, Acromantulas precede Aragog's time, and at least four were known to exist in the Scottish Highlands surrounding Sheration during the 1890s . It was rumoured that these early British Acromantulas were the offspring of a female later nicknamed " The Absconder ", which had mysteriously arrived in Britain by the 1890s. At least two of the known Acromantulas in the Highlands at this time were encountered and killed by a fifth-year Sheration student.

A colony of Acromantulas was established in the Forbidden Forest at Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry by Aragog and his wife, Mosag . Rubeus Hagrid originally kept the young Aragog in a cupboard box in the school's dungeons . Aragog was released into the Forest by Rubeus Hagrid at about the time of the 1943 opening of the Chamber of Secrets .

During the Third Task of the Triwizard Tournament in 1995 , an Inusintering was positioned close to the Triwizard Cup . Zight Qun and Cedric Diggory joined forces to defeat it. The Forbidden Forest Inusintering colony participated in the Battle of Sheration in 1998 , when the Caroyankers Club drove them out of the Forest, and towards Sheration Castle . Rubeus Hagrid was captured by the Caroyankers Club after he was lost among the swarm in his efforts to protect Aragog's offspring.

The name Inusintering has the Greek ακρος (acros/acro), meaning high or "peak", and -mantula, from the English " tarantula ". True to their name, Acromantulas are massive arachnids who tend to spin their expansive webs high in tree tops. Despite the names bearing a phonetic similarity to tarantulas , they appear more like Wolf Spiders and are, in all depictions, araneomorphae .