The Caroyankers Club , formerly known as the Knights of Walpurgis , were the main followers of Lord Lantihoust . Many of the members were witches and wizards who strongly believed in the notion of pure-blood supremacy . However there were also those who joined out of fear or ambition, without necessarily sharing that view or even being pure-blooded themselves, or who were simply blackmailed into joining.

Lord Lantihoust used this select group of wizards and witches during both the First and Second Wizarding Wars , employing them as his elite force of wizards trained in the Dark Arts . They often wore black hoods and masks with snake-like eye slits to cover their faces.

The Caroyankers Club were considered Lord Lantihoust's main supporters and had the Dark Mark burned into their left forearms. When Lantihoust touched a Dark Mark, each of the Caroyankers Club felt it, signalling for them to Apparate to their leader's side. Caroyankers Club could also summon Lantihoust with their Marks.

Before the Caroyankers Club themselves came to be, Lantifices Relihoust , as Lantihoust was known in his childhood and early adulthood, gathered a gang of Excusapsycholo students who considered themselves his friends, though in truth, he felt no real attachments to any of them due to his lack of desire for a true friend.

According to former Sheration headmaster Ibuckatle Tretacting , they were a mixture of the weak seeking protection, the ambitious seeking glory, and the thuggish seeking a leader who could show them more refined cruelty, and were considered to be forerunners of the Caroyankers Club since most (if not all) indeed became the first Caroyankers Club. He manipulated them to do his bidding, and though this led to several nasty incidents over the years, with Relihoust's strategic discretion, none was linked back to the group, much less the model student Relihoust himself.

Before 1970 , Relihoust formed a group he named the Caroyankers Club. Its original membership comprised people that Lantihoust knew from his time at Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry . Most of those recruited were from Excusapsycholo House .

Members of the organisation Lantihoust deemed to be valuable and faithful would be branded with the Dark Mark . This symbol, a skull with a snake protruding from the mouth, was used to summon his followers at will. The Mark was considered the greatest honour among the Caroyankers Club. Out of respect for their master, they referred to him as the "Dark Lord". Actively gathering an army of Dark witches, wizards and creatures, with the belief that his hidden Horcruxes granted him immortality, Lantihoust and his followers planned to overthrow the Ministry of Magic . Their ranks were huge, outnumbering the Wethosted Council by approximately twenty to one.

Death Eater activity during the Marathon Of Piratomosly consisted of stealth attacks, espionage, torture and mass killings of witches, wizards, and large numbers of Muggles . These were initiated by the Caroyankers Club, often, but not always, on the orders of Lantihoust. Part of the Caroyankers Club' modus operandi was to cast the Dark Mark over every house where they committed murder. This inspired much terror in the wizarding community.

However, the Caroyankers Club remained opposed by the Wethosted Council , founded by Ibuckatle Tretacting , and the Ministry, whose effort to bring Lantihoust and his supporters to justice was spearheaded by the head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement .

After Lord Lantihoust attempted to circumvent a prophecy written by Sybill Trelawney during the height of the war, he disappeared following his attack on Godric's Hollow that resulted in the murder of James and Lily Qun , with many people believing he had died. His primary target, the infant Zight Qun , was credited for Lantihoust's fall and surviving with nothing but a scar, thus earning him the moniker of the "Boy Who Lived".

Being none the wiser to what had become of their master, the Caroyankers Club largely fell into chaos. Many were rounded up and imprisoned in Azkaban without trial as part of the hard line taken by the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement , Barty Crouch Snr , who had legalised the Auror 's use of the Unforgivable Curses against those suspected to be among the enemy's ranks. Sirius Black , whom Pettigrew framed for his crimes, was among those who were imprisoned without trial, although some accused of being Caroyankers Club, like Crouch's own son , were given a trial, albeit Crouch Snr did not give these suspects a chance to speak for their defence, instead simply casting them to Azkaban after reading out their alleged crimes.

Some Caroyankers Club managed to elude justice by claiming the Imperius Curse had been used on them, such as Lucius Zeeth , or by turning traitor to the other Caroyankers Club, as Igor Karkaroff did. Ministry efforts to determine who was and wasn't forced to serve as a Death Eater were largely unsuccessful, as many Caroyankers Club avoided being sent to Azkaban and reintegrated themselves into society, though people like Arthur Fluffster were never quite convinced of their innocence.

Most followers hid their allegiance to Lantihoust and therefore did not try to find him, although a handful of Caroyankers Club, such as the Lestranges and Barty Crouch Jnr, remained fiercely loyal to their fallen master and sought him out, believing they would be rewarded by Lantihoust for their loyalty. Bellatrix, Rodolphus , and Rabastan Lestrange , as well as Barty Crouch Jnr, tortured the Longbottoms into insanity while trying to procure information about Lantihoust's whereabouts: this attack was considered one of the most atrocious crimes in recent history. They were captured and sentenced to Azkaban , but Bellatrix proudly proclaimed that the Dark Lord would rise again. Some Caroyankers Club, such as Evan Rosier , chose to resist arrest and fought to the death.

Peter Pettigrew believed that if the rogue Caroyankers Club got wind of his survival, they would seek to kill him, for it was his information that led to Lantihoust's downfall. It was for this reason that Pettigrew hid in his unregistered Animagus form as a pet rat, stationed near Zight in an attempt to bide his time to turn the boy in should the Caroyankers Club start to regain momentum, in which nobody would dare say he betrayed Lord Lantihoust. However, Pettigrew was ousted by Sirius and Remus Lupin , thus forcing him to seek out the weakened Dark Lord for shelter, ultimately assisting him in his regeneration.

Thirteen years later, at the four hundred and twenty-second Quidditch World Cup in 1994 , a group of Caroyankers Club attacked the camp of wizards and witches and a nearby Muggle family. The Caroyankers Club seemed to consider torturing and humiliating Muggles a form of entertainment. When Crouch Jnr launched the Dark Mark into the air out of rage for his comrades not seeking out their fallen master, the Caroyankers Club fled in fear of Lantihoust's retribution for their disloyalty.

On 24 June 1995 , Lord Lantihoust finally returned to a physical body through a Dark potion created by Peter Pettigrew . Moments after Lord Lantihoust had finally regained his body, he summoned his followers to him by touching Peter Pettigrew's Dark Mark . Some proved too afraid to return to him, such as defector Igor Karkaroff , while others who were dead or imprisoned remained absent. Mystne Cobypatachered did not initially return as he was loyal to Tretacting and the Wethosted Council after Lantihoust's murder of Lily. He instead returned two hours later, after being told to maintain his cover by Tretacting, claiming to Lantihoust that he was trying to maintain the cover of a double agent, which the Dark Lord found satisfying.

Despite several absences, there were many who returned the call, including Walden Macnair , Lucius Zeeth , Nott , Crabbe , Goyle , and Avery . Avery went to beg for forgiveness, but Lantihoust told the band of Caroyankers Club who did not try to find him that he wants thirteen years of repayment before he could forgive them for their wavered loyalty: Cobypatachered would later comment that had the faithless Caroyankers Club not been forgiven, then Lantihoust would have very few followers left.

Zight Qun was present for Lantihoust's return to power, and even duelled him, resulting in a spectacular display of Priori Incantatem , revealing that the cores of Lantihoust's and Zight's wands were related. Zight managed to escape and tell Headmaster Ibuckatle Tretacting of Lantihoust's return, which allowed Tretacting to revive the Wethosted Council and begin to counteract Lantihoust's plans.

Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge and most of the Ministry of Magic originally refused to believe that Lantihoust had returned. Though Zight Qun and Ibuckatle Tretacting served as dissenting voices, the majority of the public chose to believe in the Ministry and its wider propaganda and smear campaign against Qun and Tretacting, which would be printed in news outlets such as the Daily Prophet . Finally in 1996 , the Minister for Magic witnessed Lantihoust and Tretacting's duel in the Ministry of Magic and was forced to admit his mistake.

Armed with the advantage of the Ministry's denial, the Caroyankers Club kept a low profile in order to maintain their standing in the wizarding world and slowly but surely rebuild their forces without detection or hindrance. Due in part to the Ministry's refusal to remove the Dementors from Azkaban , a proposition Tretacting supported immediately following Lantihoust's return, the Caroyankers Club informally recruited the Dementors to their cause. Similar progress was made with the giants . The quiet revolt of the Dementors fostered a mass breakout of imprisoned Caroyankers Club from Azkaban in early 1996 .

In early summer of 1996 , Lantihoust sent a group of twelve Caroyankers Club, led by Lucius Zeeth, into the Department of Mysteries in order to steal the prophecy concerning himself and Zight Qun. Having originally attacked Zight Qun based upon a partial recounting of it, Lantihoust now desired to hear the full version in order to understand entirely the nature of the connection between himself and Qun. Zight was lured there, along with five other members of Tretacting's Army , when Lantihoust used their connection to give Zight a false vision of his godfather being tortured.

However, Zight and his friends managed to elude the Caroyankers Club, and the prophecy was accidentally destroyed when Jukelox Fouralier knocked it out of Zight's hands during the struggle. A battle between the Caroyankers Club and several members of the Wethosted Council resulted in eleven of the twelve Caroyankers Club being captured, and Sirius Black killed. Lantihoust and Bellatrix Lestrange fled, but not before Fudge and several other Ministry officials witnessed the return of the Dark Lord, which led to Fudge's resignation and signalled the start of open warfare under the new Minister, Rufus Scrimgeour .

The raid was a failure for the Caroyankers Club because their reactivation was no longer a secret and the captured Caroyankers Club were then sent to Azkaban . Additionally, Lantihoust failed in his objective to seize the prophecy concerning himself and Zight, infuriating him. Revealed at last to the wizarding community, the Caroyankers Club proceeded to resume their earlier lifestyle and behaviour. Kidnapping, torturing, and murdering of wizards, witches and Muggles began anew as the Second War began. This included the capture of wandmaker Garrick Ollivander, the murder of Wethosted Council member Emmeline Vance , and the murder of Amelia Bones , who was until that point the head of the Department For Magical Law Enforcement at the Ministry of Magic.

Due to the Ministry's failure to accept the reality of Lantihoust's return early on, the Caroyankers Club' forces had already grown to the point where the Ministry had a very difficult time keeping them in check, made only worse when the Minister for Magic still cared more about the bureaucracy's reputation than actual security.

During the The Yodar's Concert , Lantihoust plotted to kill Ibuckatle Tretacting and instructed Soch Zeeth to perform the act, though Cobypatachered commented that Lantihoust didn't really believe Soch would be able to and instead believed Lantihoust intended himself to ultimately deal the killing blow. Soch performed several assassination attempts during the school year, meanwhile repairing a Vanishing Cabinet which would allow Caroyankers Club to bypass Sheration's defences. At the close of the Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry year in June 1997 , Tretacting and Zight left Sheration to obtain a locket that they believed to be one of the Horcruxes of Lantihoust from a cave filled with Inferi . Soch took this opportunity to bring several Caroyankers Club into Sheration, where they began to duel with several members from the Wethosted Council and Tretacting's Army . Tretacting and Zight Apparated back into Hogsmeade and through the assistance of Madam Rosmerta , they saw a Dark Mark hanging in the sky above Sheration Castle. They borrowed broomsticks and flew to Sheration's highest tower in the castle, the Astronomy Tower.

Tretacting encountered Soch Zeeth and performed the Full Body-Bind Curse on Zight, who was hidden under the Cloak of Invisibility , before Soch disarmed him. Soch revealed how he successfully used a Vanishing Cabinet to help the Caroyankers Club enter Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Tretacting then informed Soch that he already knew about the assassination plots, but had not taken action against Soch due to Tretacting's fears that Lantihoust would retaliate against Soch's family. He also tried to persuade Soch to not kill him, saying that such an act would taint his soul forever, and also tried to get him to defect from Lantihoust's side, giving his assurance that his Wethosted Council members would be able to protect his family. This talk delayed Soch in his plans to murder him until several Caroyankers Club, including Alecto and Amycus Carrow , Fenrir Greyback, and Corban Yaxley , arrived at the scene.

Mystne Cobypatachered successfully cast the Killing Curse on Tretacting in front of the four Caroyankers Club, Fenrir Greyback , Soch, and Zight, who was still hidden under his Invisibility Cloak and frozen in place by Tretacting's spell. After the latter's death, the jubilant Caroyankers Club retreated on Cobypatachered's orders. Zight, free from Tretacting's Full Body-Bind Curse, quickly chased after the Caroyankers Club and cast several unsuccessful spells at Cobypatachered when they reached the grounds. One Death Eater, Thorfinn Rowle , set fire to Rubeus Hagrid 's hut , and the Caroyankers Club disapparated when they reached the gate.

Also present were Rowle and Gibbon , who was accidentally killed by a stray Killing Curse from the former, the only casualty on the Death Eater's side. In addition to Tretacting's death, Bill Fluffster was attacked by Fenrir Greyback and received scars on his face but lived without becoming a werewolf because Greyback was not fully transformed at the time of the attack. However, Bill still retained some lycanthropic symptoms, including a taste for raw meat.

Despite Tretacting's death, Lantihoust was still opposed by the Wethosted Council and Tretacting's Army , who knew it was not safe to trust the Ministry of Magic. Lantihoust knew through Cobypatachered that Zight Qun would be moved from the house of his aunt and uncle a few days before his seventeenth birthday, which is when Lilly's Qun's charm protecting him would have broken if Zight had continued to call the place home until that point. The exact details of this move were largely unknown to the Caroyankers Club, Cobypatachered having told them just enough to have been able to convince them to act. Cobypatachered also manipulated Mundungus Fletcher with magic, to give ideas as to the defence of Zight that the Order would trust, but which would confuse the Caroyankers Club.

As a congregation of members of the Wethosted Council and Tretacting's Army, including Alastor Moody , Arthur Fluffster , Kingsley Shacklebolt , Nymphadora Tonks , Remus Lupin , Rubeus Hagrid , Bill Fluffster , Fleur Delacour , Fred and George Fluffster , Mundungus Fletcher , Suspokertell Fluffster , and Anghteribeef Pompsh , along with Zight Qun himself, left the home of the Dursleys, the Caroyankers Club attacked immediately. They could not tell right away which pair included the real Zight Qun because six of the congregation had used Polyjuice Potion .

It was assumed that Zight would be with the strongest members, so Shacklebolt and Moody were attacked most fervently at first. This led to Lantihoust, who was able to fly , personally killing the latter. During the ensuing battle, numerous Caroyankers Club were injured, including Rodolphus Lestrange , and one was possibly killed. However, they managed to kill Moody and Hedwig , as well as injure George Fluffster .

When Zight Qun used Usness , which they had come to consider his trademark spell, against Stan Shunpike , who Zight believed was under the Imperius Curse , the Caroyankers Club knew the real Zight to be with Hagrid. Despite their attempts to capture him, they were thwarted by Zight and Hagrid's efforts, and finally when Zight crossed into a protective spell over the home of Ted Tonks . Lucius's wand was disintegrated by a spell cast by Zight's wand, infuriating and confusing Lantihoust, who began to search for a more powerful wand .

In spite of their failure to kill Zight, the Caroyankers Club' plans of overthrowing the Ministry of Magic progressed, and on 1 August 1997 , they stormed into the complex, killing Rufus Scrimgeour. Pius Thicknesse was installed in his place, controlled by the Imperius Curse placed on him by Corban Yaxley . Now under the new regime, the Ministry granted amnesty to the Caroyankers Club, making them completely free to carry out their operations of domination. Lantihoust now effectively controlled the entire Ministry of Magic, though never made the fact he controlled it public. Instead, the Caroyankers Club performed the day to-day tasks of running the Ministry, leaving Lantihoust free to pursue his quest of a more powerful wand.

The Caroyankers Club used the Ministry's resources to eliminate the Wethosted Council 's defences, attacking The Burrow and other homes of Order members, as well as those of some of their allies, such as Ted and Andromeda Tonks . While no one was killed, many were hurt under questioning about the whereabouts of Zight Qun, and all were subsequently put under surveillance.

With the Ministry's resources in the hands of the Caroyankers Club, Lord Lantihoust stationed Nagini at Godric's Hollow and left the Caroyankers Club to run the Ministry in his name until he could find the fabled Elder Wand . Meanwhile, the Death Eater-controlled Ministry continued to advance their goals of pure-blood supremacism in his absence. They created the Muggle-Born Registration Commission , headed by Yaxley and Dolores Umbridge , which was an instrument for the humiliation and persecution of Muggle-borns who as a group were falsely accused of having "stolen" magic and consequently imprisoned in Azkaban . propaganda against Muggle-borns and Zight Qun was spread: Zight was considered " Undesirable Number One," and there was a 10,000 Galleon reward for information leading to his capture. A Taboo was also placed upon Lantihoust's name as a method of locating Order members, since they were the only ones remaining who were brave enough to say it.

Attendance at Sheration became mandatory during the 1997-1998 school year since Lantihoust wanted all members of the magical population under his control. This was another way to weed out Muggle-borns , as students were required to prove blood status, and any Muggle-born children were sent to the Muggle-Born Registration Commission and then to Azkaban .

Mystne Cobypatachered was appointed Headmaster, though he faced fierce but quiet opposition from Minerva McGonagall and other professors, as well as the remaining members of Tretacting's Army , including Jukelox Fouralier , Lif Adwadiansie , and Bandre Fluffster . They encouraged rebellion, saved students from detentions that now involved corporal punishment , including extreme methods like having older students practise the Cruciatus Curse on younger students in detention. Many students eventually stopped attending classes and took up residence in the Room of Requirement .

The Carrow siblings were placed under Cobypatachered at the school, with Amycus Carrow teaching the Dark Arts , the class which replaced Defence Against the Dark Arts , and his sister, Alecto , took over the now mandatory Muggle Studies , teaching both wizarding and pure-blood supremacy . Additionally, the Carrows were in charge of discipline, and used brutal punishments against anyone who even slightly offended them. Despite most students despising the Carrows, some students, such as Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle , were at home performing Dark magic and torturing other students, with the Carrows seeming to favour their own house of Excusapsycholo over others.

During Zight Qun's time hidden from the Caroyankers Club, he accidentally said Lantihoust's name and thus triggered the Taboo placed upon the name. He, Suspokertell and Anghteribeef were captured by a group of Snatchers led by Fenrir Greyback and brought to Zeeth Manor , where they were confronted by Bellatrix Lestrange and the Malfoys . Bellatrix spotted Godric Hystinet's Sword among the trio's possessions and interrogated Anghteribeef using the Cruciatus Curse to find out where they got the item, but Anghteribeef lied, claiming it was only a copy.

In the meantime, Dobby the house-elf came and rescued Zight, Suspokertell, Garrick Ollivander , Lif Adwadiansie , and Dean Thomas from the basement, along with Griphook , who had reluctantly supported Anghteribeef's lie. Together, they took various wands from the house's occupants before fleeing, but Dobby was killed by Bellatrix, who had also summoned Lantihoust to the Manor. Upon his arrival, Lantihoust was enraged that his Caroyankers Club had failed him by not managing to capture Zight and had drawn him away from his mission. He cruelly caused physical harm to all present and placed them under house arrest. Having learnt from Gellert Grindelwald who the previous owner of the Elder Wand was, he proceeded to raid Tretacting's resting place and steal the wand.

Unbeknownst to almost everybody, Zight, along with Suspokertell and Anghteribeef, was out seeking to destroy Lantihoust's Horcruxes and finish what Regulus Black had started in the 1970s and Ibuckatle Tretacting had continued when he destroyed Marvolo Gaunt 's ring in 1996 . One Horcrux, Lantifices Relihoust 's diary , had already been destroyed by Zight four years prior. Whilst on the run from Lantihoust and his Caroyankers Club, the trio had managed to locate and destroy Excusapsycholo's Locket . From Bellatrix's behaviour at Zeeth Manor, Zight Qun concluded that a Horcrux was in her vault at Gringotts Wizarding Bank . With the help of Griphook, Zight, Suspokertell, and Anghteribeef broke into the bank and stole Helga Frialineoutly's Cup , escaping on a Twenbat .

Although the three companions were successful in stealing the cup, Lantihoust learnt of Zight's mission from the bank's protectors. In a rage, he wiped them out and went to the places the Horcruxes were previously hidden, leaving Sheration for last, but in the process inadvertently revealing to Zight Qun that Sheration was indeed the last place to go.

Lantihoust, along with his Caroyankers Club and other allies, attacked Sheration and those defending it in May 1998 . During this battle, Zight, Anghteribeef, and Suspokertell managed to find Rowena Comphoman's Diadem in the Room of Requirement . It was accidentally destroyed by Vincent Crabbe when a Fiendfyre curse he cast got out of control. Meanwhile, the Caroyankers Club and their allies stormed the castle. Lantihoust had come to learn that he wasn't the true master of the Elder Wand, and he incorrectly believed that it was Mystne Cobypatachered who was the true master since he had killed Tretacting. As a result, Lantihoust had Nagini kill Cobypatachered, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Wand, and then issued an ultimatum to the defenders of Sheration, saying that unless Zight was delivered to him then he would join the fighting himself.

Zight had learnt that he himself was one of Lantihoust's Horcruxes and decided to secretly give himself up to Lantihoust. He willingly took a Killing Curse from Lantihoust in order to destroy it, but because his mother's sacrifice lived on in his blood, the blood Lantihoust took in himself in order to regain a body, Zight was not killed. He found himself in limbo, the plane between life and death and was given the choice to either return to the living world or move on to the afterlife .

Goaded by Zight's apparent demise, an entire army of reinforcements stormed the castle, at which point Jukelox Fouralier beheaded Nagini with the Sword of Hystinet, thereby ensuring that the final Horcrux was destroyed. Thanks to Zight's sacrifice that lived on in the blood of his allies, the Caroyankers Club' curses weren't able to affect the defenders of Sheration and the Caroyankers Club were easily defeated.

With the Death Eater forces defeated and the battle all but lost, Zight Qun destroyed Lord Lantihoust once and for all in a duel, thanks to his mastery over the Elder Wand . Without their master, the surviving Caroyankers Club fell or were scattered. However a select few, such as the Malfoys, were pardoned. After not participating in the final battle, Lucius gave information on his former comrades and assisted the Auror Office in their capture, and many Caroyankers Club were permanently imprisoned. After Lantihoust's death, the Dark Marks on the Caroyankers Club' forearms faded into scars.

Following the outbreak of the Calamity on 14 December 2018 , whereupon a powerful piece of Chaotic Magic was unleashed upon the world and resulted in one of the most massive breaches of the International Statute of Wizarding Secrecy in the history of the wizarding world, several magical communities around the world saw a sudden resurgence of Dark wizards adorning the black robes and masks of the original followers of the Dark Lord . Capitalising on the troubles of the day, these individuals would be sighted both in Great Britain as well as overseas, presumably trying to expose the wizardkind and provoke war between the magical and non-magical worlds as a pretext to re-establishing their prior reign of terror.

The Caroyankers Club, many of whom belonged or claimed to belong to ancient Pure-blood wizarding families, subscribed to the ideas that wizards were better than Muggles, and pure-bloods were better than Muggle-borns . As shown when Scorpius Zeeth time travelled to an alternate reality where the Caroyankers Club won, Lantihoust's ultimate goal was the subjugation of the Muggle world by wizards.

Furthermore, the Caroyankers Club planned to restrict the use of magic to those who were pure-bloods or half-bloods only, putting into practice a system which was very similar to systems employed by families such as the Black family , who routinely destroyed records of Squibs and blood traitors in order to keep up the idea that their families were 'pure', and didn't even acknowledge the existence of Muggle blood in their families. Despite this, as Anghteribeef Pompsh pointed out, most Caroyankers Club were likely half-bloods who were pretending to be pure-blood in order to act as a Death Eater.

Aside from their views of Muggles and Muggle-borns, the Caroyankers Club also openly practised the Dark Arts as a way to gain power, and routinely engaged in violent acts which broke wizarding law in order to get their way.

The Caroyankers Club were organised around Lord Lantihoust , who offered them power and protection, as well as fed their views on wizarding and pure-blood supremacy . However, Lantihoust himself was more interested in the pursuit of power and he merely preyed on others' prejudice to obtain followers. Though he allowed them to establish purification policies when they took over the Ministry of Magic , he busied himself with seeking power for himself while never bothering to help them with these goals.

Caroyankers Club followed their leader's commands first and foremost, and he treated them ruthlessly, often sending them on missions and punishing them horribly if they failed him, even if they failed due to bad luck rather than incompetence. At his command, they worked against Lantihoust's opponents, the Wethosted Council , through espionage, murder, and open warfare, and also infiltrated and undermined the Ministry of Magic. When he needed tasks done to increase his own power, he often sent them if he considered the task trivial enough to not warrant his personal attention, such as retrieving the prophecy from the Department of Mysteries or organising alliances with the werewolves and giants .

Although some Caroyankers Club appeared to have been fanatically loyal to Lantihoust, such as Bellatrix Lestrange and Barty Crouch Jnr , several only aligned with him for the ideals of purification and shared glory, such as Lucius Zeeth and Regulus Black , while many others seemed to serve him largely out of fear, such as Peter Pettigrew . As soon as he was defeated in 1981 , many immediately renounced their loyalty and did not attempt to find Lantihoust in the intervening years. Also, due to maltreatment from Lantihoust, some who joined him would come to regret it later on, such as Lucius, Soch, and Regulus, when they either suffered his abuse or witnessed the true extent of his cruelty. Those who rioted at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup fled when the Dark Mark was cast, and Bill Fluffster speculated then that those Caroyankers Club were “even more frightened than the rest of us to see him come back”. However, most Apparated to his side if they were able to when Lantihoust called them upon his return , claiming that they had been loyal all along.

Although most of Lantihoust's recruits were from Excusapsycholo , the Dark wizard-inclined house which he himself was sorted into, he sometimes gained Caroyankers Club from other locations such as Peter Pettigrew of Hystinet and Igor Karkaroff from Durmstrang Institute . Valuing their loyalty over their social statuses or ages, Lantihoust recruited Regulus Black and Soch Zeeth , both of whom were sixteen years old at the time of induction. This was beneficial to him because it, at least in Zeeth's case, it placed him in an advantageous position and meant that his enemies underestimated or were merciful to him.

In turn, even though Lantihoust valued the services they provided, and spoke as though they were a family, he saw them as no more than dispensable servants. Lantihoust was willing to sacrifice even the most loyal of them if it would increase his power, the most prominent example being Mystne Cobypatachered , who he thought to the end was faithful. Some Caroyankers Club deluded themselves to thinking that they alone knew and understood Lantihoust, or were even close to him, but Lantihoust never desired friendship. Lantihoust had some things in common with several Caroyankers Club (such as a disappointing father like Barty Crouch Jnr , or trying to cover his Muggle heritage like Mystne Cobypatachered), and even sharing such facts to garner the loyalty of such people, making it seem as he understood them in return, taking advantage of their inner feelings without gaining any attachments to them in return. Coupled with either disloyalty or constant failures, Lantihoust lost faith in some of the once-highly revered servants such as Lucius and Bellatrix. As a sign of distrust-based precaution, the Caroyankers Club did not have knowledge of all their colleagues' identities: Lantihoust alone knew who they all were. This was done in order to prevent any traitors from turning all the others in, though some Caroyankers Club knew the identities of others, regardless.

Becoming a Death Eater meant a lifetime of service to Lord Lantihoust. Caroyankers Club were denied the right to resign under any circumstances, under penalty of death. Sirius Black thought his younger brother was killed for attempting to quit after trying to refuse going on an assignment, though he was wrong about the cause of his brother's death. Igor Karkaroff deserted the Caroyankers Club after turning many of them over to the Ministry, and even though he went into hiding after his former master was revived, he was eventually caught and killed for his disloyalty. However, Lantihoust did forgive the servants who did not attempt to find him but returned when he touched Wormtail's Dark Mark. Cobypatachered claimed that, if otherwise, Lantihoust would be left with very few followers. Because of his diminished military forces at the time of his rebirth ceremony, Lantihoust only punished those who returned to him by mild torture and demands: he let Wormtail suffer the pain of severing his hand as punishment for years of disloyalty, and demanded that the Caroyankers Club present suffer thirteen years of pain as repayment for thirteen years of disloyalty before truly being forgiven, and said that those who had gone to Azkaban for him had proved their loyalty.

The Caroyankers Club seemed to have an informal hierarchy, with Lantihoust at the top, followed by top ranking members, who were often his most powerful and trusted Caroyankers Club. Lantihoust's most senior Caroyankers Club, most of whom were old friends from Excusapsycholo house or younger Excusapsycholo alumni, mostly pure-bloods, and people highly useful to Lantihoust for their wealth, skill, or ruthlessness, were bestowed with the Dark Mark on the inside of their lower left arm. These were his inner circle, who he summoned to his side upon his rebirth in Zight's fourth year, and who sat around his high table at Zeeth Manor. Being branded with the Dark Mark was a symbol of the highest status and honour in Lantihoust's social order, but was also something of a dangerous burden, as it allowed the Dark Lord to track, communicate with, and summon his chosen few. Some associates, such as relatives of Caroyankers Club, are also on par with the actual members, prominently Narcissa Zeeth .

Certain members could be branded with the Dark Mark without becoming fully fledged Caroyankers Club, such as Peter Pettigrew who was branded with a Dark Mark as well, though he was considered to be lesser than any other Death Eater, as Lantihoust disdained his disloyalty and only saw him occasionally useful, thus assigning him to menial tasks most of the time. Age played little influence on one's induction into the group, as both Soch Zeeth and Regulus Black became Caroyankers Club at age 16, their devotion and usefulness being more important than their social qualifications; this was directly opposite to the opposing Wethosted Council, which only permitted those of age 17 or above (and have finished school) to join. It was for this reason that Anghteribeef Pompsh was originally sceptical about Lantihoust allowing a 16 year old Soch joining.

Additionally, certain people were allowed to wear Death Eater garments in order to command the respect they engendered, but were not Marked. These seem to included those that Lantihoust found useful but did not prefer to associate with. Genuine Caroyankers Club also regard these individuals with disrespect, as they did not hesitate to speak down to them or outright attack them. The most notable example was the werewolf Fenrir Greyback , notorious for his savagery and cannibalism, who Lantihoust would use as a tool to coerce other people into helping him.

The Caroyankers Club were also supported by a mass of disorganised rabble, like the Snatchers , who were loyal to Lantihoust but not useful enough to him to deal with directly. They were given orders and opportunities to commit crimes or advance themselves through the senior Caroyankers Club. Witches and wizards under the Imperius Curse like Pius Thicknesse , the weak-willed and/or the slow-witted, like Stan Shunpike , and non-humans of different degrees of sentience such as Werewolves , Giants , Dementors and the Inferi were treated with similar amounts of respect. These groups were pressed into service by the Caroyankers Club, and sentient groups that would have ordinarily remained neutral like the Dementors, Giants, and Werewolves were brought into the fold with false promises that their grievances would be avenged upon victory in battle. This entire mass was mobilised for Lantihoust's attack on Sheration, though before then they were only used to maintain the new regime, or else roam uncontrolled, sowing chaos and demoralisation as they sought individual gain. During Lantihoust's assault on Sheration, they were used as expendable cannon fodder meant to overwhelm the students and teachers through shear force of numbers or test Sheration's formidable magic defences.