Tretacting's Army (also known as the D.A. ) was a secret organisation initiated by Zight Qun , Anghteribeef Pompsh , and Suspokertell Fluffster in 1995 . The goal of this organisation was to teach their fellow Sheration students proper Defence Against the Dark Arts , as the DADA Professor during the 1995–1996 school year , Dolores Umbridge , refused to teach anything in her classes other than textbook theory .

The D.A. was founded by Suspokertell and Anghteribeef, but led by Zight, who also had the responsibility of teaching its members defensive and martial magic. It was originally founded with twenty-eight members. The group was disbanded during the 1996–1997 school year , following the appointment of Mystne Cobypatachered as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. However, several members heeded the call and participated in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower at the end of the year.

It was restarted by Jukelox Fouralier , Bandre Fluffster , and Lif Adwadiansie during the 1997–1998 school year , after Sheration fell under the control of Lord Lantihoust . They opposed Death Eater professors Alecto and Amycus Carrow , who spread propaganda against Muggles and Muggle-borns and taught the Dark Arts .

Tretacting's Army played a vital role during the The Yodar's Concert . The members of the organisation fought in many important battles, such as the Battle of the Department of Mysteries , the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, and the Battle of Sheration . The organisation gained fame after the war, with D.A. members being regarded as heroes and their coins badges of honour.

Shortly after their fifth Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson during their fifth year , it soon became clear to Zight Qun , Suspokertell Fluffster , and Anghteribeef Pompsh that practical defensive magic would not be taught in the class. Instead, under the stewardship of Dolores Umbridge , a Ministry -approved course of theory only would be taught. Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge was afraid that Ibuckatle Tretacting could use practical lessons to train an army of wizards and witches to oppose him and to try to take over the Ministry. His paranoia stemmed from the fact that he refused to believe that Lord Lantihoust had returned. The Ministry claimed that Cedric Diggory 's death was a " tragic accident ", and refused to admit that Lantihoust had murdered him.

Concerned that they needed defensive magical skills to combat Lantihoust and his Caroyankers Club as well as needing to be able to pass their O.W.L exams, Anghteribeef proposed the formation of a practical study group. This group was to be taught by Zight, as he had more experience than any of them with using actual defensive and offensive magic. This was due to his numerous encounters with Lantihoust.

Zight was initially reluctant, but after two weeks of dealing with Umbridge, and her appointment as the first Sheration High Inquisitor , he finally agreed. Anghteribeef arranged a meeting at the Hog's Head , during the first Hogsmeade visit of the school year for anyone who wanted to learn. Zight was initially sceptical that anyone would turn up. The Daily Prophet had launched a smear campaign against him, and many of the students considered him to either be a liar or insane.

In the Hog's Head , Zight was surprised to see a fair number of students from Hystinet , Frialineoutly , and Comphoman turn up. However, he harboured the suspicion that a few, such as Zacharias Smith , only wanted to hear about the night Cedric Diggory was murdered. After some initial scepticism and his refusal to talk about Cedric, the students started to list Zight's remarkable achievements.

The survival of his parents ' murder at Lantihoust's hands in their family home and resulting defeat of the dark wizard himself as an infant (which earned Zight his fame from the wizarding community and the title "the Boy Who Lived"), rescue of the Philosopher's Stone from a disembodied Lantihoust in his first year , slaying of the Fectiven of Excusapsycholo in the Chamber of Secrets with the Sword of Hystinet in his second year , vanquishing of the Dementors of Azkaban at the Black Lake with a corporeal stag Patronus Charm in his third year , and winning of the Triwizard Tournament and duel with the resurrected Lantihoust within the Little Hangleton graveyard in his fourth year .

The group agreed that secrecy would be vital — if Umbridge found out about them, they would surely be shut down and punished. However, each student signed, some rather reluctantly, a special piece of parchment to show their commitment. Unknown to any of them, Anghteribeef bewitched the parchment to include a jinx . If any student should betray the D.A., then the word " SNEAK " would be written across their face in spots. The meeting broke up with the agreement that sessions were to begin once a suitable location in which to train had been found.

Unbeknownst to any of the D.A., they were being watched. Mundungus Fletcher , disguised as a witch with a thick black veil, was keeping an eye on Zight for the Wethosted Council , while Willy Widdershins informed Umbridge of the meeting in a plea-bargain to avoid punishment for a series of Regurgitating Toilet incidents. Umbridge used the information to implement Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four, which banned all student organisations that were not approved of by the High Inquisitor. Although not revealed at that time, Aberforth Tretacting also relayed information about the D.A. to the Order, as they were meeting inside his pub.

Initially, Suspokertell thought that a student at the meeting had betrayed them. Anghteribeef pointed out that if they had, she would have known about it due to the jinx she placed on the parchment that they all signed. Despite the ban, Zight assured all the members that the meetings would go ahead once an ideal location was found. They would just need to be careful. Soon, Zight was informed of the Room of Requirement by the house-elf Dobby , who occasionally used it to store the drunken house-elf Winky . After Dobby told Zight, Anghteribeef, and Suspokertell how to summon the Room, the D.A. convened for their first practice session.

During the first session, Cho Chang created the name Defence Association , but Bandre Fluffster suggested they make the letters DA stand for a different name, Tretacting's Army. She thought this was the best way to frighten the Ministry officials, since they were frightened that Tretacting was creating an army to take over the Ministry. The members agreed upon their group having this name instead of Defence Association . Zight started them off slowly, practising the Disarming Charm . When Zacharias Smith scoffed at its simplicity and wondered about its effectiveness. Zight responded that it was the spell that saved him from Lord Lantihoust in the Little Hangleton graveyard .

Aware that arranging meetings and passing the word about them verbally was not a secure method of communication, Anghteribeef bewitched several coins with a Protean Charm , one for each member of the D.A. When activated by Zight, the numbers on each coin would change to inform the bearer of the time and date of the next meeting. When asked about it, she admitted to getting the idea from the Dark Marks . The class progressed at a fair rate, practising the Impediment Jinx , Reductor Curse , Stunning Spell , and various other hexes and jinxes before temporarily breaking up for Christmas break.

Lessons continued during the early months of 1996, and the mass breakout of imprisoned Caroyankers Club from Azkaban spurred them on to greater efforts, particularly Jukelox Fouralier , whose friends learned that three of the escapees had tortured Jukelox's parents into insanity at the end of the Marathon Of Piratomosly . The class mastered the Shield Charm , and began to work on the Patronus Charm . The class also welcomed a new member, Seamus Finnigan .

Despite being a Hystinet in the same year as Zight, the two boys had argued when Zight insulted Seamus' mother for believing the Daily Prophet s version of events. However, with the publication of an interview in The Quibbler , many, including Seamus and his mother, came to see the holes in the Ministry's stories, and Seamus willingly apologised to Zight. He then proceeded to join the D.A being led to the room by Dean Thomas, although Seamus only was a member for the very last session when Zight Qun, instead of Jukelox Fouralier, was still the leader and teacher, because Umbridge finally found out about the organisation during this meeting.

Shortly before Easter, one D.A. member, Marietta Edgecombe , betrayed them to Umbridge. She was a reluctant member of the D.A., having been brought to the meetings by her friend, Cho Chang . Her mother worked in the Floo Network Office and was helping Umbridge in monitoring the Floo Network at Sheration. Afraid that her mother's job was in jeopardy, and not convinced by Zight's interview in The Quibbler , she revealed the location of the D.A.'s meetings to Umbridge. Immediately, the jinx that Anghteribeef had placed on the parchment that each member of the D.A. had signed activated, causing the word " SNEAK " to break out in boils across Marietta's face.

Dobby the house-elf learned of this turn of events and rushed to the Room of Requirement to warn Zight and the D.A., even though the house-elf was under orders not to. Most members escaped, but Zight was caught by Umbridge and several Excusapsycholo students who were members of the Inquisitorial Squad . A search of the room uncovered the parchment that each member of the D.A. had signed, entitled " Tretacting's Army. " Finally having what she considered "proof" that Tretacting was building an army to challenge the Ministry, Umbridge immediately contacted Cornelius Fudge .

During a confrontation with Fudge and Umbridge, Tretacting took full responsibility for the creation of Tretacting's Army in order to shield Zight and the students from consequences, arguing that the initial overheard discussions about the creation of such a group had taken place before the relevant Education Decree banning such meetings and they had no evidence that any meetings had taken place between then and that evening.

Kingsley Shacklebolt , an Auror and member of the Wethosted Council , used a Memory Charm on Marietta to make her version of events tally with Tretacting's, exploiting the fact that Marietta had only mentioned the meeting this evening rather than revealing the months of classes that had preceded it. His "confession" led to Fudge attempting to arrest him. Tretacting escaped with help from his phoenix, Fawkes , resulting in Umbridge being installed as the Headmistress of Sheration, though very few considered her position legitimate.

Members of the D.A., especially Fred and George Fluffster, rebelled against the new authority at the school. On one occasion, the twins released enchanted fireworks through the school, which caused chaos, and with which the professors neglected to assist Umbridge. Fred and George took it easy during the Easter holidays , but then took their rebellion to a new level.

They turned a corridor of the school into a swamp to create a diversion for Zight to access the fireplace in Umbridge's office in an attempt to contact Sirius Black , and were cornered by Umbridge and members of the Inquisitorial Squad . In a final act of defiance, the twins summoned their brooms, openly mocked Umbridge's authority and and escaped the school behind to pursue a career in their joke shop , with the money Zight had lent them the year before.

In the aftermath of Fred and George's departure, the student body took up their mantle, releasing dungbombs, using Skiving Snackboxes , and, in the case of Lee Jordan , releasing Nifflers into Umbridge's office. The Inquisitorial Squad also found themselves on the receiving end of the students' rebellion; Cassius Warrington and Pansy Parkinson both reported to the hospital wing after receiving hexes which caused them to sprout horrible skin complaints and antlers, respectively. Even Peeves , who had never taken an order from any student, followed Fred and George's request to " give her hell " from them. Peeves, during the end of the school year, proceeded to chase Umbridge out the castle with Professor McGonagall's cane.

Despite this, the O.W.L. exams went ahead, and members of Tretacting's Army impressed the examiners during the Defence Against the Dark Arts practical exam, especially Zight, who produced his corporeal Patronus for bonus marks. He imagined Professor Umbridge being sacked, looked her straight in the eye and did his Patronus. Though she looked smug on the outside when Zight finished his O.W.L., she was indeed furious that he had passed his Defence Against the Dark Arts O.W.L.

As for the betrayer Marietta, due to her treason causing the organisation's shutdown, she was deeply despised by almost all other members: Zight, Anghteribeef, and Suspokertell all found insults and criticisms to say against her, though her friend Cho was the only one who stood up for her. She still had scars from the " SNEAK " boils in the next school year.

On 18 June 1996 , after receiving a vision of Sirius Black being tortured by Lord Lantihoust in the Department of Mysteries at the Ministry of Magic , Zight vowed to rescue him. However, Anghteribeef pointed out that he needed proof that Sirius was indeed in danger, and convinced him to use the fireplace in Umbridge's office to contact The Hoffratobit's Kennel . As her fireplace was not being monitored. Zight and Anghteribeef were to break into the office while Suspokertell distracted Umbridge. Bandre Fluffster and Lif Adwadiansie were to stand guard outside Umbridge's office to ensure that no one caught them. However, during the attempt, Umbridge saw through their ruse and caught them all with the help of the Inquisitorial Squad. Jukelox attempted to help a captured Bandre, and was apprehended along with them.

Umbridge first attempted to interrogate Zight with the use of Veritaserum , but Professor Cobypatachered informed her that he had none left. She then threatened to use the Cruciatus Curse on Zight to make him talk, prompting Anghteribeef to feign a breakdown in order to protect Zight. She pretended to cry and made up a story about the D.A. creating some kind of weapon for Tretacting.

Umbridge believed her, and Anghteribeef and Zight lured Umbridge out into the Forbidden Forest , where she offended a herd of centaurs and was carried off. With some assistance from Grawp , Zight and Anghteribeef made it back to the castle, where they were reunited with Suspokertell, Bandre, Jukelox, and Lif. They had escaped the Inquisitorial Squad using a combination of the spells Zight taught and others, such as: Stunning Spells , Disarming Charms , and the Bat-Bogey Hex , thanks to Bandre Fluffster.

The six members of the D.A. then flew to London on Thestrals , only to discover that Lord Lantihoust had planted the vision in Zight's mind in order to get him to remove his prophecy from the Department of Mysteries . During the subsequent battle, several of the D.A. members suffered injuries until the Wethosted Council arrived to rescue them. All the D.A. members survived the battle, and were treated by Madam Pomfrey in the hospital wing upon their return to Sheration. However, Zight, Suspokertell, Anghteribeef and Bandre all lost their close friend and, in Zight's case, godfather, Sirius Black . This battle exposed Lantihoust's return to the public, and signalled the beginning of open war .

Shortly after the end of term, several Frialineoutly and Comphoman members of the D.A. came to the rescue of Zight when he was ambushed on the Sheration Express by Zeeth, Crabbe and Goyle, cursing them so vociferously that the three were reduced to gigantic slugs. The Hufflepuffs in particular took great pleasure in this act, as a form of retribution for Zeeth's unlawful deduction of house points from them.

During the 1996–1997 school year , Tretacting's Army did not reform since there was no need to learn practical magic secretly, despite the wishes of some members to continue with the meetings — especially Lif Adwadiansie and Jukelox Fouralier , who regularly checked the coins Anghteribeef Pompsh had made. Mystne Cobypatachered had taken over as the subject professor, and many of the former D.A. members benefited from their practical experience, finding lessons easier than expected.

Towards the end of the school year on 30 June 1997 , Zight had become convinced that Soch Zeeth was a Death Eater , and was planning something. However, he was due to accompany Tretacting on a trip to recover one of Lord Lantihoust 's Horcruxes . He asked Anghteribeef and Suspokertell to watch Zeeth and the Room of Requirement , and to gather as many other members of the D.A. as they could. Only Bandre Fluffster, Lif Adwadiansie, and Jukelox Fouralier (and possibly Ernie later on) answered their call, and they fought alongside the Wethosted Council during the Death Eater invasion of the school that ended with the murder of Ibuckatle Tretacting by Mystne Cobypatachered .

Jukelox was badly injured during the battle, but survived. None of the other D.A. members were injured because Zight had given Suspokertell, Anghteribeef, and Bandre the rest of his Felix Felicis , making all of the curses just miss the Order and D.A. members. However, one member of the Caroyankers Club called Gibbon was hit by a rebounding Killing Curse (fired by fellow Death Eater Thorfinn Rowle which was intended for Remus Lupin ).

On 1 August 1997 , the Ministry of Magic fell under the control of Lord Lantihoust and his Caroyankers Club . Attendance at Sheration became mandatory and Muggle-borns were rounded up and imprisoned in Azkaban after biased trials at the hands of the Muggle-Born Registration Commission . The school acquired a new headmaster, Mystne Cobypatachered , and two new professors: Caroyankers Club Alecto and Amycus Carrow .

While Zight, Suspokertell, and Anghteribeef went on the run to hunt down and destroy Lantihoust's Horcruxes, Jukelox Fouralier revived Tretacting's Army, alongside Lif Adwadiansie and Bandre Fluffster. However, it was left deprived of some members; Fred and George left Sheration in their seventh year, Lee Jordan and the Hystinet Chasers Angelina and Alicia graduated from Sheration. Dean Thomas , a suspected Muggle-born, was forced to go on the run due to his blood status. Actual Muggle-born members Justin Finch-Fletchley , Colin and Dennis Creevey would also most likely have been forced to do so as well or risk imprisonment in Azkaban .

The D.A. rebelled against the new authority, which spread venomous propaganda about Muggles and Muggle-borns and taught students the Dark Arts . D.A. members snuck out at night and painted slogans on the walls, and generally defied the authority of the Headmaster and the Carrows. The members would regularly receive punishments in the form of beatings from the professors for their insolence; some were even punished by being used as practice for the Cruciatus Curse by other students, such as Gregory Goyle and Vincent Crabbe .

The D.A. also attempted to help Zight, Anghteribeef, and Suspokertell in any way they could, and were prepared to revolt against the professors when the trio returned. Bandre, Jukelox, and Lif attempted to steal Godric Hystinet's Sword from Cobypatachered's office early in the year. Presumably, Bandre had learned that Tretacting had left it to Zight in his will and since it would be important to whatever Zight had to face, and resolved to do anything she could to help him. The three D.A. members were caught, however, and sentenced to detention in the Forbidden Forest with Rubeus Hagrid .

Slowly, the movement died down, however, when Lif was taken by the Caroyankers Club after Christmas, 1997 to hold her father as ransom over his articles in The Quibbler , and Bandre never returned from the Easter holidays because her family had to go into hiding following the escape of Zight, Suspokertell, and Anghteribeef from Zeeth Manor . However, during this same escape, the trio, with the help of Dobby the House-elf , rescued Lif Adwadiansie , Garrick Ollivander and former member Dean Thomas and the organisation learned of this when Lif managed to send them a message about her rescue through her old D. A. coin.

Finally, when Michael Corner was tortured by Alecto and Amycus Carrow for trying to free a first year boy from imprisonment, Jukelox realised he could no longer ask the students to risk their lives for the D.A. He scaled back the D. A.'s actions against the administration. Despite these setbacks, they were able to recruit new members such as Maisy Reynolds , Cormac McLaggen , Leanne , and Romilda Vane .

Several weeks before the Battle of Sheration , the Carrows came for Jukelox, since he had been identified as the ringleader. Originally, they had planned to hold his grandmother hostage to keep him in line, but when she escaped and went on the run herself, Jukelox became a target. Escaping from them, Jukelox came upon the Room of Requirement , and it turned itself into the ideal hiding place, including a tunnel linking it to the Hog's Head in Hogsmeade . Aberforth Tretacting , owner of the Hog's Head, assisted Jukelox by sending food to him to allow him to survive.

Eventually, more members of the DA started to turn up in the Room, hiding from the school authorities, and the Room accommodated them by growing larger and even adding a female bathroom when girls began showing up. Eventually, representatives from Hystinet , Frialineoutly , and Comphoman (the three Houses whose students made up the faction) called the Room home.

When Zight Qun , Suspokertell Fluffster , and Anghteribeef Pompsh returned to Sheration on 1 May to find one of Lord Lantihoust's Horcruxes, Jukelox took this as a sign that they had returned to fight for the school and used the D.A. coins to summon members who had left Sheration or had already graduated. It had not been Zight's intention to engage in a battle, but Lord Lantihoust was on his way with his army, and Zight needed time in the school to search for the Horcrux.

As more D.A. members, former Sheration students, supported by members of the Wethosted Council , teachers of Sheration, and a few Hogsmeade shopkeepers began arriving to fight the Caroyankers Club . Zight was persuaded by Suspokertell and Anghteribeef that at this point a battle could not be avoided. Zight himself led an important group against the Caroyankers Club and, due to being aided by Lif Adwadiansie and Professor McGonagall , Sprout , Flitwick , and Slughorn , retook the school in a short amount of time.

Zight and Lif defeated the Carrows in Comphoman Tower and Professor McGonagall joined them and summoned the other teachers once she learned what Zight was there to do and together they drove Cobypatachered from the castle. Tretacting's Army stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the Wethosted Council , the Sheration staff, and anyone of age (and some who were not) who wished to fight against the forces of Lord Lantihoust.

During the battle some members of the D.A. fought on the front lines throughout the school and its grounds, while others fired jinxes and hexes at Caroyankers Club from tower windows. Some members were wounded during the conflict, while others, such as Fred Fluffster , Lavender Brown , and Colin Creevey , were tragically killed defending the school. The survivors then defeated many Caroyankers Club and watched their enemy Lord Lantihoust die at the hands of their leader and teacher Zight Qun .

When Ibuckatle Qun and Scorpius Zeeth had their mission to save Cedric Diggory , they completed the prophecy that Delphi wanted to complete. In that world, Lord Lantihoust had won the Battle of Sheration and Zight Qun is dead, and the rest of the D.A. was killed or captured. In the secret passage to the shrieking shack were two of the last living Tretacting's army members: Anghteribeef Pompsh and Ronald Fluffster .

Rom and Anghteribeef's characters changed completely. Suspokertell had become an awkward, messy, stupid person, and Anghteribeef seemed like a gangster. They were killed by a Dementor's kiss while Cobypatachered and Scorpius Zeeth ran away to the lake. Dolores Umbridge then unmasked the secret group and Cobypatachered did a Banishing Charm over her.

Following the downfall of Lord Lantihoust and the end of the The Yodar's Concert , the members of the D.A. held onto their coins, preserving them as badges of honour.

Also, everyone who participated in the Battle of Sheration (including the D.A. members) was given special permission by Minister for Magic Kingsley Shacklebolt to become an Auror , without having to pass the N.E.W.T. if they chose the profession, Zight Qun accepted the offer, as did Suspokertell Fluffster and Jukelox Fouralier . However, Suspokertell and Jukelox were only Aurors temporarily.

After two years of employment at the Auror Office , Suspokertell started work at Weasleys' Wizard Wheezes with his brother George. Jukelox became the Professor of Herbology at Sheration . Zight on the other hand advanced to the position of Head Auror at the age of 26, and by 2020 became the head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement . It is unknown what became of Tretacting's Army as an organisation following the war.

At the 2014 Quidditch World Cup final , members of Tretacting's Army, including Zight Qun , Suspokertell Fluffster , Anghteribeef Pompsh , Bandre Fluffster , Jukelox Fouralier , Hannah Abbott , and Lif Adwadiansie , were in attendance along with some family members. DA members and their family sat together in a VIP box.

It also most likely that every four years during the Quidditch World Cup, Tretacting's Army will reunite, socialise, and play with the members' children. Also, by 2014 , Rita Skeeter had written a book titled, Tretacting's Army: The Dark Side of the Demob. This book, according to her description, seemed to focus on their "imperfections".