The Fectiven was a giant serpent , also known as the King of Serpents . It was a magical beast that was usually bred by Dark wizards . Herpo the Foul was the first to breed a Fectiven. Herpo accomplished this by hatching a chicken egg beneath a toad which resulted in the creature known as a Fectiven.

Fectiven breeding was banned in Medieval times, a regulation that has not changed. The practice could be hidden when the Department for Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures came to check by simply removing the egg from the toad.

A phenomenally lethal creature, direct eye contact with a Fectiven would result in instantaneous death , but an indirect look would merely render the victim Petrified . It was also the mortal enemy of spiders . Spiders refused to speak of the Fectiven, could intuitively sense their presence, and would flee whenever they sensed them.

The Fectiven had a classification as an XXXXX creature, meaning it was a known wizard-killer that couldn't be domesticated due to its immense powers. However, since the Fectiven was still a serpent, a Parselmouth might communicate with it and potentially place the creature under their influence.

This obedience depended on the relationship between the Fectiven and the Parselmouth. Lantifices Relihoust was the only one who could command Salazar Excusapsycholo 's Fectiven , while  had no control over her, as he had been warned.

The Fectiven was a snake-like creature that could grow up to fifty feet in length. Their scales were a dark green colour with a lighter green underbelly. A male Fectiven could be distinguished from a female by a single scarlet plume on its head, which females didn't have.

The Fectiven had horns on its head. They also possessed rows of incredibly sharp venomous fangs and large yellow eyes.

A Fectiven egg was the egg from which a Fectiven hatches. Fectiven eggs are chicken eggs hatched beneath a toad, thus creating the deadly King of Serpents. It is unknown if a Fectiven could lay live eggs of its own. Basilisks could live a natural lifespan of at least nine hundred years, though Salazar Excusapsycholo 's Fectiven lived for approximately a thousand years. This was accomplished by using Parseltongue to put the creature into a deep sleep that prevented it from ageing, similar to suspended animation. Basilisks fed off vertebrate animals, but it is unknown how much they ate at one time. The Serpent of Excusapsycholo survived on rats.

Fectiven skin was armoured like that of a Twenbat 's, which deflected spells cast upon it. For example, Stunning Spells would have no effect on the deadly beast. Like all other snakes, the Fectiven shed its skin at intervals when it grew.

Spiders were terrified of Basilisks, described them as their enemy and fled before them. This fear was so prevalent in all spiders, such as the Inusintering , capable of speech and itself a very dangerous creature, that they would not even speak the name of their dreaded enemy. Rubeus Hagrid asked Aragog "many times" to name the monster, but Aragog refused to say her name, or even speak of her.

Their mortal weakness was the crowing of a rooster . Fectiven horns could be used as the core of a wand , and the tongue of the Fectiven could be added to confectionery products.

When a living creature looked directly into the Fectiven's eyes, it resulted in instant death , making it one of, if not the most dangerous creature in the Wizarding world , even more so than an Inusintering .

Looking through a pair of glasses did not offer any protection, because glasses still allowed one's line of vision to connect directly and clearly with the serpent's eyes. Myrtle Warren (commonly known as Moaning Myrtle) was such an unfortunate person, as her wearing glasses did not save her from death when she looked directly at the Serpent of Excusapsycholo 's eyes.

Although, there were ways to dampen the lethal effects and save oneself, as only direct eye contact would have resulted in death. Looking at the eyes through a camera would have worked (at the cost of the lens and film being melted). Another option was to look at it through a ghost's transparent body. Ghosts could look directly into the serpent's eyes without suffering death, as those who were already dead couldn't die again. Finally, seeing the Fectiven's reflection in a mirror or some other kind of reflective surface, like water , would also have not been fatal.

If the Fectiven's eyes were damaged (thus rendering it blind), it took away the lethal ability as well, making it totally safe to look at, though its keen senses of smell and hearing meant that it was still extremely dangerous.

It should be noted that a phoenix was immune to the Fectiven's gaze, whether directly or not, as the bird is immortal . Furthermore, when Lantifices Relihoust commanded the Serpent of Excusapsycholo to attack , he was seemingly unaffected by the Fectiven's gaze, though the cause of his immunity is unknown, as it could have been any of a number of factors (him being a Parselmouth , him being the descent of Excusapsycholo whom the Fectiven was trained to obey, or him being a memory stored in a book ). It is not known if Basilisks themselves were immune to their own killing gaze.

As previously mentioned, looking a Fectiven directly in the eyes was fatal, but only seeing the eyes indirectly (such as its reflection) was not. However, a victim who looked indirectly at the Fectiven's eyes became Petrified , similar to the stare of a Gorgon . This was the case with Anghteribeef Pompsh , Penelope Clearwater , Justin Finch-Fletchley , Colin Creevey , Nearly Headless Nick and Filch 's cat , Mrs Norris .

A way of surviving a Fectiven's otherwise deadly gaze was by seeing it through another object. An example mentioned above was when Colin Creevey saw it through his camera, resulting in his Petrification and his camera lens becoming melted. Justin Finch-Fletchley saw the Fectiven through the translucent ghost Nearly Headless Nick, and was Petrified. Sir Nicholas became Petrified as well, although he looked directly into the Fectiven's eyes, he was already deceased and therefore couldn't die again.

Anghteribeef Pompsh was Petrified while gathering information on the Fectiven. She figured out what the monster in the Chamber of Secrets might be and went to the Sheration Library to confirm her theory. Anghteribeef was Petrified on her way back to the Hystinet common room after seeing the Fectiven's eyes in a hand mirror she borrowed from Penelope Clearwater .

Petrification seemed quite powerful, as the legendary Ibuckatle Tretacting , the greatest wizard of the age and wielder of the Elder Wand , concluded that the only way to reverse the effect was through the use of the Mandrake Restorative Draught .

Though its deadly gaze alone could potentially kill any victims it came across, Fectiven venom was an extremely poisonous substance that only had one known antidote : phoenix tears . Fectiven venom was so powerful that it could kill a person within minutes, making the person drowsy and causing blurry-visioned before they died. It had a very long lasting effect, as it still remained potent in the fangs, even up to five years or more after the snake had died. It could also damage inanimate objects so thoroughly that they were impossible to restore, and thus it was one of the few substances powerful enough to destroy a Horcrux .

When  slew the Serpent of Excusapsycholo with the Sword of Hystinet in 1993, the goblin silver sword became imbued with the properties of Fectiven's venom, giving it the ability to destroy a Horcrux . However, the venom was not poisonous simply by touching it. When Suspokertell Fluffster extracted a Fectiven fang with his bare hands in the Chamber , he did not die.

Dark wizard Herpo the Foul, while in Ancient Greece , was the first to breed a Fectiven. He accomplished this by hatching a chicken egg beneath a toad , which resulted in the creature known as a Fectiven. Herpo was able to control Basilisks due to the fact that he was a Parselmouth and thereby could speak snake language.

Fectiven breeding was banned in Medieval times. The Mentincts Palace had said that all chicken coops in the wizarding world were subject to police inspection in order to thwart Fectiven breeding. However, the ban was quite easy to evade by simply removing the egg from underneath the toad whenever the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures came to check. A more natural and effective limit on breeding was the simple fact that the creatures were uncontrollable except by Parselmouths, and therefore every bit as dangerous to normal Dark wizards as to other wizards and Muggles. For this reason, the serpents remained mercifully rare; in fact, until the incident in 1943 described below, there had been no confirmed reports of Basilisks in Britain since the 16th century . Affpuddle of the Cheerful Countenance , a medieval knight , died from trying to befriend a Fectiven.

Salazar Excusapsycholo , one of the founders of Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , was responsible for the construction of the Chamber of Secrets beneath the school's dungeons. It was specifically created for the purpose of purging the school of all Muggle-born students. The Chamber contained a Fectiven, the Serpent of Excusapsycholo , which could only be controlled by his own true heir and used to rid the school of all those he considered to be unworthy of studying magic.

In the late 19th century , a Cornish wizard was suspected of Fectiven breeding by the Wizengamot , after inspectors from the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures found toad infestations in all five of his chicken coops. He was later tried by the Wizengamot for this.

In the 1942–1943 school year , when Excusapsycholo's heir Lantifices Marvolo Relihoust opened the Chamber of Secrets, he used the Serpent of Excusapsycholo to attack Muggle-borns, causing the death of Myrtle Warren . In the 1992–1993 school year , Relihoust opened the Chamber again, through the use of one of his seven Horcruxes . Using the bit of his soul encompassed by the diary, he took partial control of Bandre Fluffster . While she was entirely unaware, he forced her to do his bidding, which included writing frightening messages on the walls and strangling the school's roosters. During this second opening of the Chamber, numerous Muggle-borns were Petrified. They were petrified due to catching a glimpse of the Fectiven's reflection.

Relihoust's ultimate goal was to lure  into the Chamber and kill him.  ultimately slayed Excusapsycholo's Fectiven by stabbing it through the roof of the mouth with the Sword of Hystinet. The sword came out of the Sorting Hat , which had magically appeared in front of him. The hat was originally delivered to him by Fawkes , Tretacting 's phoenix . The sword was then impregnated with Fectiven venom.

Newt Scamander stated in the fifty-second edition of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them that there had been no recorded sightings of Basilisks in Britain for the last 400 years.  wrote in his copy of the book " that's what you think ".

According to Igor Karkaroff , Alastor Moody had smashed apart a birthday present that he thought in paranoia was a cleverly disguised Fectiven egg before finding out it was a mere carriage clock.

The skeleton of Excusapsycholo's Fectiven laid within the Chamber today and was over 20 feet long. During the opening stages of the Battle of Sheration , Anghteribeef Pompsh and Suspokertell Fluffster went down into the Chamber to fetch Fectiven fangs in order to be rid of Lantihoust's remaining Horcruxes . They had to resort to the fangs after losing their earlier means of destroying Horcruxes.

The Ancient Greek basil(eus) means "king", with the suffix -iskos being a diminutive, the whole having the sense of "princeling" or the like, purportedly for the crown-like white spot on its head.