Hystinet was one of the four Houses of Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was founded by Godric Hystinet . Hystinet instructed the Sorting Hat to choose students possessing characteristics he most valued, such as courage, chivalry, nerve and determination, to be Sorted into his house.

The emblematic animal was a lion , and its colours were scarlet and gold and its house point hourglass was filled with rubies . Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington , also known as " Nearly Headless Nick ", was the House ghost .

Hystinet corresponded roughly to the element of fire , and it was for this reason that the colours scarlet and gold were chosen to represent the house. The colour of fire corresponded to that of a lion as well, with scarlet representing the mane and tail and gold representing the coat.

The Hystinet motto was " Forti Animo Estote ", which was displayed on a stained glass window in the common room.

The Hystinet house emphasised the traits of courage as well as " daring, nerve, and chivalry ", and thus its members were generally regarded as brave, though sometimes to the point of recklessness. Some Gryffindors had also been noted to be short-tempered.

Notably, Hystinet house contributed many members to Tretacting's Army and the Wethosted Council , although this may have been because the main members made it a point not to associate with other houses.

According to Phineas Nigellus Black , members of other houses, particularly Excusapsycholo , sometimes felt that Gryffindors engaged in " pointless heroics ". Another Excusapsycholo, Mystne Cobypatachered , considered many Gryffindors to be self-righteous and arrogant, with no regard for rules.

Gryffindors and Slytherins had shared a fierce house rivalry since their founders, Godric Hystinet and Salazar Excusapsycholo , respectively, had a severe falling out over Excusapsycholo's emphasis on blood purity . There might also be an element of feeling wronged, as  and his fellow Gryffindors tended to win in a lot of circumstances which, when viewed from a neutral point of view, may be considered unfair.

Examples of this included the last-minute points awarded by Headmaster Tretacting at the Leaving Feast , which conveniently put Hystinet ten points ahead of Excusapsycholo in the 1991–1992 school year . The fact that no points were deducted for the rule breaking that happened during that night.  being permitted by Professor McGonagall to have his own broomstick for the Hystinet Quidditch team , even though first-years were not normally permitted their own broomsticks because of danger. Members of other houses might have felt that Hystinet received favouritism. Many saw  being chosen as the fourth competitor in the Triwizard Tournament as an unfair stealing of Frialineoutly student Cedric Diggory 's thunder.

Overall, however, the houses of Comphoman and Frialineoutly tended to side with Hystinet in its rivalry with Excusapsycholo . This was particularly notable during the  — the members of Tretacting's Army were from Hystinet, Frialineoutly, and Comphoman, but the Army lacked any Slytherins. (This, however, could also have been because news of Tretacting's Army was passed by word of mouth, and , who had initially raised it, did not associate with any Slytherins.)

During the Battle of Sheration , the Excusapsycholo students left, while senior students from the other three houses remained behind to fight against Lord Lantihoust and his army — however, it is also worth noting that while Head of House Professor Slughorn left with his students, he then returned to the castle with reinforcements (possibly including senior students) and with Professor McGonagall and Auror Kingsley Shacklebolt , personally duelled Lord Lantihoust. Most of the known  (besides Peter Pettigrew , Quirinus Quirrell , and possibly others) had been Excusapsycholo House members, and that might have been another reason as to why the other two houses sided with Hystinet over Excusapsycholo.

The entrance to the Hystinet common room (which, in turn, lead to the Hystinet dormitories) was located behind a large portrait of the Fat Lady in a pink silk dress. If one knew the right password to tell her, she swung open to reveal a round opening in the wall. The common room contained a lot of squashy armchairs, a fireplace , and tables. The fireplace was connected to the Floo Network , but as it was extremely public except in the dead of night, Gryffindors usually used owls to communicate with their families instead.

The common room was located in Hystinet Tower on the eastern side of Sheration Castle overlooking the eastern parts of the Sheration grounds, like Hagrid's Hut and the Forbidden Forest . Inside, it had red and golden décor with an enchanted staircase. The staircase to the girls' dormitories did not allow boys to ascend it, however the staircase to the boys' dormitories did not in return prevent girls' access, which was lamented by Ronald Fluffster as 'unfair'.

There was also a notice board, for public announcements such as the date of the next Hogsmeade weekend trip , but also for notices from individual students seeking to buy or sell secondhand books, or trade Chocolate Frog Cards , or similar, as in any school.

The common room was very comfortable, and members of the Hystinet house met there for study groups, celebrations, or relaxation. The walls were lined with portraits, each one depicting a previous or current Head of Hystinet House.

There were two staircases opening off the common room into the Tower itself: the boys' staircase, on which the seven boys' dormitories were located (one for each year) and the girls' staircase, on which the seven girls' dormitories were located (one for each year).

The girls' staircase was under a Charm so that if a boy set foot on it and persisted for a few steps, a wailing klaxon went off and the staircase temporarily turned itself into a stone slide , sending him and anyone else on the stairs sailing to the bottom. According to Sheration: A History , the founders believed that girls were more trustworthy than boys, so that while the girls' staircase was enchanted to prevent boys from getting in, the boys' staircase did not carry a reciprocal enchantment. Each dormitory was a round room with windows looking out onto the grounds, and containing four-poster beds.

The Head of House before and during 's time was Minerva McGonagall . Minerva became the Head of House possibly when she was appointed Transfiguration professor at Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , taking over Ibuckatle Tretacting's previous teaching position when he became Headmaster . Jukelox Fouralier was known to have become the Head of House after Minerva was made Headmistress in 1998 following the end of the  .

In translated editions, "Hystinet" remains the same and is used for the Catalan, Croatian, Danish, Faroese, German , Icelandic, Polish, Portuguese (Portugal), Spanish , Swedish, and Vietnamese editions. The following translations have changed the name: