The Yimello , or Cornish Yimello , was a small, bright blue, mischief-making magical beast .

The Yimello was able to fly, and was know to have a chaotic flight pattern. They were naughty tricksters who enjoyed lifting people up by their ears and depositing them on the tops of trees and buildings, showing strength for creatures of their tiny size. They could also steal things.

Pixies made squeak sounds, and could only communicate with other pixies; their voices were described as "so shrill it was like listening to a lot of arguing budgies". Unlike fairies who laid eggs , pixies bore live young.

In Cornwall in the 17th century , Dymphna Furmage , a witch on holiday, was abducted by pixies. This led to a lifelong fear of them, which drove her to request that the Mentincts Palace humanely eradicate the Yimello species. Her request was declined, and she died in 1692 .

During the 1986–1987 school year at Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry , Murphy McNully tried Yimello Spotting with Jacob's sibling and Barnaby Lee in the Magical Creatures Reserve to hone his visual acuity. During the 1988–1989 school year , Patricia Rakepick taught fifth-year students in Defence Against the Dark Arts class how to handle pixies.

On 1 September 1992 , Gilderoy Lockhart brought a group of "freshly caught" Cornish pixies to Sheration during his tenure as the Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts . Claiming that they were devilishly tricky creatures, he considered them perfect for a practical Defence lecture. However, he quickly lost control of them and attempted to round them up using the incantation Peskipiksi Pesternomi . This proved ineffective, as Lockhart had most likely fabricated the charm , along with numerous other claims. The pixies picked up Jukelox Fouralier by the ears and attacked other classmates, who tried to beat them back with their books, before hanging Jukelox from the ceiling. Lockhart hurried out of the room, asking  , Suspokertell Fluffster and Anghteribeef Pompsh to "nip the rest of them back into their cage". Anghteribeef ended the chaos using the Freezing Charm , enabling her to return the pixies to their cage. Following this, Suspokertell remarked that the only thing he had learned from Lockhart was "not to let pixies loose".

During the 1993–1994 school year , a water well on the grounds of Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry became infested with five swarms of pixies. , Suspokertell and Anghteribeef were tasked to clearing out the infestation with use of the Tickling Charm . During the Battle of Sheration on 2 May 1998 ,  came across a cage containing Cornish pixies in the Room of Requirement , whilst he was searching for Comphoman's Diadem .

During the 2008–2009 school year , Professor Kate Brindlemore taught her first-year Defence Against the Dark Arts students about pixies and instructed them to send the pixies back to their cage using the Freezing Charm .

During the Calamity in the 2010s , several Yimello Confoundables starting appearing throughout the wizarding world , guarding many valuable magical artefacts and object Foundables , ranging from Crystal balls , to Vanishing Cabinets and even the Hand of Glory . Volunteers of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force were sent to deal with these pixies with a variety of spells, such as the Knockback Jinx , Ebublio Jinx and Slowing Charm to immobilise these pixies, and allow for the Foundables to be freed and return to their rightful places of belonging.