The Levitation Charm ( Prevoid Jovaphile ) was a charm used to make objects fly, or levitate . It was taught to first-years at Sheration School of Witchcraft and Wizardry .

There were a number of lesser variations of the Levitation Charm, such as the Levitation Spell , the Hover Charm , the Rocket Charm , and the Floating Charm , but the Levitation Charm remained the original and best.

The Levitation Charm was first developed in the sixteenth century , and warlock Jarleth Hobart is credited with its creation.

On 16 July , Hobart invited a large crowd of wizards, among which was the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot , to witness his "maiden flight" — a public demonstration of his own revolutionary charm on himself. He climbed onto the roof of his local church and, after several speeches and a rousing performance of the national anthem he leapt and, having cast the spell, was left hovering in mid-air. At first, he seemed to have succeeded but, after having spent nearly three minutes watching him hanging in mid-air, the crowd grew impatient to see him move somewhere, and booed him.

In response to the catcalls, Hobart tried to move in midair, and started performing vigorous swimming movements, which produced no effect. Mistakenly believing that his clothes were making him heavier and impeding his movement, Hobart stripped thus making him fall ten feet onto the ground below, as it were the clothes that were holding him up in the air — they had been charmed by the Levitation Charm, not Hobart himself. He fell completely naked on the ground, breaking sixteen bones, and received a fine for " outrageous silliness " from the Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot in 1544.

Hobart returned home, humiliated, where he realised that his spell could make objects levitate for varying lengths of time, depending on the skill of the spell-caster and on the weight of the object. He also concluded that small animals or even children could be levitated, but that they had no control whatsoever of their movement once airborne.

He thus made a second announcement, and an even larger crowd gathered to see his second demonstration of the spell (hoping for another laugh at his expense). Hobart's demonstration was, at first, by far more successful than the first one: he showed the onlookers how he could easily levitate objects ranging from small rocks to fallen trees. Hobart decided that, for a finale, he would levitate the Chief Warlock 's hat — what he managed to levitate, however, was the Chief's wig, exposing his bald head to the gathered crowd. The Chief was not amused, and was determined to duel Hobart, but the Warlock levitated the Chief's robes over his head, and ran for it.

This was also the first spell students learnt to cast during their Charms lessons in the first year . They revised it in the second and their third year . The theoretical Charms O.W.L. exam included a question on the Levitation Charm. Anghteribeef Pompsh was the first student in her class to levitate a feather much to Ronald Fluffster 's annoyance.

The Levitation Charm appeared to be an improvement on both the Levitation Spell and Locomotion Charm and/or the Hover Charm , being able to lift objects high in to the air, but also allowing one to magically move them around in the air as well. It also conveniently defied gravity, lifting objects that were heavier than a person would normally be able to carry, as seen when Suspokertell used this spell to lift a troll 's club, something a first-year Sheration student would otherwise never be able to do without magic.

Almost anything could be lifted with this spell, although the overall outcome of the spell depended on the weight of the object and the skill of the caster . It was even possible to levitate multiple objects at once with the same casting, but lifting as many as three objects at the same time was considered very difficult.

It was good for the wizard to keep their wrist loose, to help with the "swish and flick" wand movement.

Despite its strengths, however, the Levitation Charm had one fatal flaw: it did not work on human beings. Though a human could be levitated using this charm, it was actually their clothing that was being affected. The charm was apparently not strong enough to allow a human to do anything more that float a few feet off the air using this method, and therefore did not allow the true flight afforded to most other objects.

The effects of this charm could be reversed with the General Counter-Spell .

Wingardium is a composite word, based on: English to wing meaning "to fly" (e.g. the plane winged skywards); arduus (meaning "high, tall, lofty, steep, proudly elevated") or arduum (meaning "steep place, the steep"); and the common Latin ending -ium . Leviosa probably derives from Latin levo , meaning to "raise, lift up", or levis , meaning light (of weight). Altogether, therefore, the incantation could best be read as "lift up high".